Research Series, No. 36 
Sheth Bholabhai Jeshingbhai Institute of Learning & Research 














Baas | | 
THE UPADESA SUTRA 


JAIMINI 


(an old treatise on Astrology. ) 


Critically edited with his own commentary in Sanskrit, exhaustive 
introduction in English, translation into English and appendices 


BY 
PROF. K. V. ABHYANKAR, M. A. 


Retired Professor of Sanskrit, Gujarat Cotlege; Hon, Professor of Sanskrit 
and Prakrit, B. J. Institute of Learning & Research, Gujarat Vidya 
Sabha, Ahmedabad; Member of the Court of the University of 
Poona; Chairman of the Sanskrit Vidya Sakha, Tilak 

Maharashtra Vidyapith etc. ete : 








GUJARAT VIDYASABHA: AHMEDABAD 





Published by Prof. Rasiklal Chhotalal Parikh, Director, Sheth B, J. Institute 
of Learning & Research, Bhadra, Post Box No, 23, Ahmedabad, 


V, 5; 2007. } FIRST EDITION [ A. D, 1951 
Copies 500 
Price Rs. 8 


Printed Ee the Aryabhushan Press, 915/1 Shivajinagar, Poona 4, 
ty Mr. K, G. Sharangpani, 


FOREWORD 


I feel much pleasure in placing before the public the 
present volume of Jaimini’s ‘ Upadega Sutra’ an old work 
on Astrology in Sanskrit. The work consists of four 
chapters made up of pithy aphorisms which are hardly 
intelligible without a traditional explanation. The two 
commentaries which are available are comparatively 
modern. Their text is very. currupt and at places the 
explanations given are very unsatisfactory. In order to 
grasp the spirit of the author, Prof. K. V. Abhyankar, 
the editor of the text, had therefore, to make a com- 
prehensive study . of the progressYof astronomical and 
astrological ideas at the time of the author and then 
explain the author’s sense and give reasons where he had 
to differ from the commentators. 


2. Prof. Abhyankar has critically edited the text of 
the. first two chapters with the help of 15 manuscripts. 
The. last two chapters have -no. commentary and only 
three manuscripts have given their text. With the help of 
‘these he has edited these two chapters critically for the 
first time and written his comment only on the first three 
quarters leaving the rest to some future scholar, 


3. In his exhaustive introduction Prof, ‘Abhyankar 
has dicussed not only almost all topics of astrology such as 
the characteristics of planets, aspect and pact of planets, 
casting of horoscopes, and the like, but has dealt with 
the basic astronomical conceptions about the origin of the 
Naksatra names, the week days, the twelve signs ag also 
the precession of the equinoxes. He has also traced the 
devélopment of Indian Astrology right up from the Vedic 


a 


times to the present day and discussed the relation of the 
Indian system of Astrology with the Greek system. He 
has explained fully the author’s treatment of the subject 
and shown by more than a dozen illustrations how the 
horoscopes could be prepared and read according to the 
author’s dicta. To throw further light upon the views of 
the author he has given in the Appendices the genuine text 
of the Atharva Vedanga Jyotisa ( the earliest treatise on 
Astrology in India ) and the old Karikas on Jaimini’s Sutra 
edited for the first time. As Prof. Abhyankar himself has 
expressed, his desire is to inspire the reader to study 
Astrology as a Shastra and to make further research work 
in the field. Quite a new vista has been opened by Prof. 
Abhyankar by placing before scholars, who can now well 
compare them with the current and popular dicta of 
Varahamihira, the Astrological ideas of Jaimini 


who was 
so long hidden by the obscurity of his text. 


4, The book, in brief, is a new addition to the 
existing literature on Astrology and is expected to inspire 
the much desired genuine research work in the Shastra, 
Gujarat Vidya Sabha ’-Rastxt 

Sabha, au C. Parixn 
Post Box No. 23: Bhadra, . Director, ; 
Ahmedabad, B, J. Institute of Learn; 
de rni 
llth February, 1951. Research Gujarat Vig ping 


ya Sabha, 


r/ 


Contents 


Introduction Pages 1-11 8 


Paragraph No. 


us 


Gr 


6. 


oe 


10. 


12. 


~ Karanas. "°° ” 


General Remarks 


Meaning of the term ‘Jyotisha Shastra’ or 
Astrology. : 


Astrology as a science. 
Astrological ideas in Vedic times 


Influence of the planets. 


_ ‘Atharva JTyotisa’ or ‘Atma Jyotisa’, the 


oldest manual on Astrology. 


Mention of the week days in the Atharva 
Jyotisa.» The Old Indian Calendar abe 


The Old Indian Calendar 


Calculation of days in Vedic times. © wi. 
_The Vedic Calendar. 


. Calculation of ‘tithis’ or lunar days. 


The 27 Nakstras and their relation to the 
seven planets. 


Calculation of the civil days by” means of the 


_ The origin of Week-days. 


The origin of ‘Varas’ or week days from the 
Karanas: Astrological basis. 


yy en 


Page No. 


I om oo 


10 


iv 


Paragraph No- 


“13. 


he 
1, 


16. 
17. 


18, 


28, 


Upadesa Sutra 


The Karanas suplatied by the ‘Varas’ or 
week days. oo 


so . " ? 
Origin of the notion of ‘week’. 


The 27 Naksatras divided into 3 groups of 9 
Naksatras in each. “<" 


The planets arranged on the analogy of the 
Naksatras ots 


Week days named and arranged after the 
seven planets. a 


Astronomical page for the order of the week 
days. 
Atharva Jyotisa 


Astrological ideas in the ‘Atharva Jyotisha’.... 


Auspicious and inauspicious Naksatras. ene 
Benefic and malefic planets. re 


The influence of planets on nature and man. .. 
Tithis and their, properties. 


Joints of fortnights, of half- fortnights and 
of -quarter-fortnights. ‘ld Bs 


7 Mubiirtas and their significance. . 


The edbhicas use of the éerni ‘Lagna’ sid its 
meaning. as aa 


Special importance ‘of the eastern pont in 
the Heavens. ea "ee 


Date of the eee BP ake 


Pages 


Conienis sf 
Paragraph No. Pages 
Astrology in the Siddhanta and Sutra periods 


29. The Rasi-Padas oe ce 
30. The Rasis. Rie ae 
31. The Pata-Grahas. ves af 
32, The Mahapata-Yoga. ey OF 
33, Astronomical Yogas or coincidences of the es 
Tithis, Naksatras etc. «ie Se 
34, Astrological Yogas or coincidences of astro- - 
logical factors. ue 
35. Jaimini Stitra—a representative book of the , 
period. we =D 


‘ : . - ‘ 9 
36. Astrological ideas.in Ancient India and Greece... 32 


37. Development of Indian astrology in foreign ns 

countries. woe 02 
o z bons : : 29 
58. Renaissance of Indian astrology in India. ... 35 


Jaimini’s Upadegsa Sutra—Date and critical Apparatus. 
39. General nature of the Upadesa Sutra wet OF 
40. General contents of the Upadesa Sutra. wee 35 


41, Manuscript material for the Upadega Sutra 
and its commentaries. SS 3) 
42. External evidence for the date of Jaimini. ... 37 
43. Internal evidence. oe 37 
44. Special importance of two words for fixing 
the date. we 38 
Jaimini’s Upadega Sutra—Critical analysis. : 
45. Important topics discussed by Jaimini. ve 39 
46. Aspect or ‘drsti’, a 40 
47, The underlying idea in Aspects. ioe 43 


48, The three aspects according to Jaimini. de 48 


vi 


Upadesa Siitra 


Some general rules about Dasas. 


Paragraph No. ° Pages 
Argala or pact of planets. a8 
The twelve divisions of the Zodiac = 
Karaka Graha or the significatory planet. 45 
Charattéristics of the Sun, the Moon, Mars 
and Mercury. 46 
Characteristics of Jupiter, Venus and Seri 47 
Odd and even Ragis or Divisions. 48 
Jaimini’s Upadesa Sutra—Horoscope reading. 

Origin of Kundali or horoscope. 30 
Naksatra’ Kundali, 30 
Rasi-Kundali, Lagna-Kundali and Navaihsa- 
Kundali, ; 51 
Adjustment of the three Naksatra divisions 
to the twelve Rasis. ws §2 
Reading of the Karaka-Kundali. 53 
. » Reading of the Pada-Kundali. oo «654 
Reading of the Upapada Kundali, 55 
The twelve Bhavas or Houses. .. BG 
Kvents in the life of an individual considered 
by Jaimini. ee 
General Astrological principles spe down by 
Jaimini. as 58 
Determination of the General career of man... 59 
Rajayoga and the other Yogas. 60 
Dass or life-periods. - 
Kinds of Dasas. oe eS 
Span of life measured by Dasas. 62 
Events in life determined by Daéas. ae 


Conteris vi 
Paragraph Pages 
71. Relative strength of the Ragis as also that a 
of the planets. 0° 
72, Brahma, Mabesvara and Rudra planets. 66 
73. The three general methods to determine 
longevity. ve 67 
74. Other methods for determining the span of life... 6 
75. Time of death, 69 
76, Kind and cause of death. 69 
Rational background for Jaimini’s dicta 
77. Basis of Jaimini’s Astrological ideas. 70 
78. Rational basis for Planets’ influence. 71 
79. Rational basis for aspects. oo ‘tA 
80. Rational basis for Planets’ combinations. es 4D: 
The Starting Point of the Naksatra Circle. 
81. The starting point of the Naksatra circle 
fixed before Jaimini’s time. aa | T3 
82. The Mula star—the starting point of the 
Naksatra Circle in Vedic times. 74 


bharata, the Upanisads and the Vedaiiga 
Jyotisa, 


Reference to the starting point in the works 
of Baudhayana. 


Reference in the Siddhanta works. 


. References to the starting point in the Maha- 


eee 


eee 


The twin stars of Mulabarhani as the starting 
point. 


Mula star as'the starting point followed by 
an unbroken tradition. 


tee 


75 


76 
76 


17 


78 


viii Upadesa Sutra 
Paragraph No. Pages 
Necessary corrections in the Indian Calendar 
88. The precession of the equinoxes known to #9 
the ancient Indian astronomers. ay 
89. Correction in Tithi calculation. : 
90. Correction in Karana and Naksatra calcula- és 
tions. 
91. Holy days in Vedic times. 81 
92. Revision of holidays in the Vedanga-J yotisa oo 
period. ae 
93. Second revision during the Sutra Period. $3 
Jaimini and his successors. 
94. Jaimini’s position among writers on astrolog 84 
95. The Brhad Yavana Jataka of Minaraja. 85 
96. New topics introduced in the Brhad -Yavana 
Jataka. «se 86 
97. Minaraja (King Menander ? ) the author of 
the Brhad Yavana Jataka. 86 
98. Yavanajataka of Sphujidhvaja. ‘ S7 
99. Ancient Indian Astrology, the Source of 
Ionian Astrology. 88 
100. Brhajjataka of Varahamihira. - tH 
101. Position of Brhajjataka in the field of 
- Astrology. om 98 
102. Saravali of Kalyanavarman. 90 
103. Brhatparagari. da OF 
104. The relative position of Jaiminisitras, 


Brhad-Yayana-jataka, Brhajjataka, Saravali 
and Brhatparagari. 


pee 


Contents 
Paragraph No. Pages 
Casting of Horoscopes. 
103, Practical application of the rules of Jaimini. ... 93 
106. Calculation of the twelve Divisions of the i 
Zodiac according to Jaimini. uy 
107. Specitic features of Jaimini’s calculations. od 
108 Explanation of the twelve Houses or be 
Bhavas. ve 
109. Hlustration of Jaimini’s dicta. 96 
110. Preparation of different kinds of horoscopes. --: 96 
lll. Alliances of planets and life-periods explain- 
ed by means of an illustration. 98 
112. The Atma-Karaka kundali explained by - 
9 


means of an illustration. 


113. Pada kundaliand Upapada kundali anita, 


by an illustration. we» LOO 
114. Another illustration. ..» 100 
115. Third illustration. ga LOD 
116. \Karakakundali of Swami Ramakrisna 

Paramahaihsa considered. vee LOZ 
117. Karakakundali of Justice M. G. Ranade con- 

sidered. oo 103 
118. Karakakundali of Lokamanya Bal Gangadhar 

Tilak considered. wee 108 
119. Karaka-kundali of Pandit Madan Mohan 

Malaviya considered. vee 105 


120. Karaka-kundali of His Highness Sayajirao 
Gaekwar considered. 

121. Karaka-kundali of M. M. Vasudeo Shastri 
Abhyankar considered. ve LOS 


- 
Ww 
om 
oe 
aed 


Xx 


7 , Py 
Upadesa Sitra 


. Paragraph No. 


Pages 

122. Karaka-kundali of Mahatma Géandhi consi- , 

dered. ave LOS 

123. Karaka-kundali of Sahityasamrat N.C. Kelkar. 110 

124. Karaka-kundali of Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru. .-. 111 
jz 


9. Karaka-kundali of Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel. ... 112 


126.~ Karaka-knndali of Shri. G. V. ( Dadasaheb ) ; 
_ Mavlangkar. ve 118 
127. NKaraka-kundali of Shri. J. $. ( Tatyasaheb ) 
Karandikar. wv I14 
128. Karaka-kundali of Justice N. S$. Lokur. 115 
129. Naraka-kundali of Ahmedabad City. 116 
130-2 Conclusion 117 
Critical Note. 119 
Sanskrit text of Jaimini Sutras with commentary 
First Adhyaya sv YES 
Sanskrit text of Jaimini Sutras with commentary 
Second Adhyaya 10-99" 
Sanskrit text of Jaimini Sttras with commentary 
Third Adhyaya—3 Padas 1 VV8-FEe 


Sanskrit text without commentary Third Adbyaya 
Fourth Pada to end 


Appendix No. 1 Jaimini-Sutra-Karika 
Appendix No. 2 Atharva-Jyotisa 

English Translation of Jaimini Sutras . 
Appendix No. 3. Table No, 1 References to Nakstras in 


Vedic and Post-Vedic literary works and the 
conclusion therefrom regarding their date 


Appendix No. 4. Table No. 2 Comparative Table of 
the contents of Jaimini-Sutras, Brhad-Yavana-Jataka, 


Brhad-Jataka, Saravalt aud Brhat P@ras’art . 


IS 9-988 
+e TEI-F 4 
ee LRR=FQY 
+ 197—239 


+: 240-=241 


INTRODUCTION 
GENERAL REMARKS 


Meaning of Astrology or Jyotisa Sastra. 


1. There is evidence enough to conclude that the 
Science of Astrology has been in existence in India wall 
nigh since more than 2000 years before the Christian era. 
‘Astrology is,in fact, more an Art than a Science. It is 
the art of judging the occult influence of stars on human 
affairs. It is, however, looked upon as a Science, and forms 
a part of a comprehensive Science called “Jyotisa”’ or 
“Jyotisa Sastra’”—the Science of luminaries—which is 
divided into three parts or Skandhas—(1) Ganita ( Astro- 
nomy), (2) Sarahita (Cosmic astrology ) and (3) Jataka 
(influence of planets and stars on human beings). This 
science of heavenly bodies began its career with the first 
part or Ganitaskandha, which was looked upon as one of ‘the 
six auxiliaries of Vedic Studies well known by the term 
Vedaiigas. The other two parts—Samhita and Jataka—were 
added in course of time, and the Science reached a high 
level mark im the fifth century A, D. at the time of 
Varahamihira. 


Astrology as a Science. 


2. This Science of Astrology ‘consisting of the 
Satnbita and the Jataka Skandhas of the Jyotisa Sastra 
is, in a way, a hypothetical one being based on the assump- 
tion that stars and planets exert an influence on the exist- 
ence and activities ‘of the inanimate as well as animate 
elements of the world. However debatable, theoretically 


this assuuption be in its minute details, there is 4 great 





2 U; padesa Stitra 


deal of evidence which supports it in its broad outline. 
The influence of Sun-spots on the various phenomena 1 
nature, the effects of the waxing and the waning moon on 
nature and human mind and many similar things are now 
proved beyond doubt, although a variety of explanations 18 
offered regarding the course of the influence and the 
manner in which it is exercised. If the hypothesis, that 
peculiar kinds of rays coming from the Sun and the Moon 
exert their influence on the subtle working of the human 
‘mind, be accepted, a way is paved to a considerable extent 
for accgpting the belief that planets also, and in a similar 
manner the stars too, are in a position to influence the 
working of the mind and determine the shaping of human 
affairs. 
Astrological ideas in Vedic times. 

3. In the earlier days of the Rgveda, oniy a few con- 
stellations of stars were observed and named. While, as 
far as planets were concerned, there is no positive evidence 
to show that the Vedic seers knew and named the planets 
beyond the well known Sun and the Moon. They knew 
the twelve months of the year as also the intercalary month. 
They determined exactly the time of the New and the Full 
Moon in different parts of the year, the time of the com- 
mencement of the seasons and solstices, and the positions of 
the Sun and the Moon in the heavenly vault among the 
constellations of stars. : Partly by means of observations 
from time to time, partly by force of superstitions, and 
partly by actual effects of seasons and climatic conditions, 
certain periods and days of the season were looked upon as 
more favourable or otherwise than others for different pur- 
poses. For example, the days of the Northern Ayana of 
the Sun were more favourable than the days of the Sou- 


“} £ = ie ney ms isin ea eve * 
thern one for purposes of journey, marriage, commence- 





Introduction 


ment of studies and the like, evidently on account of longer 
- days, and healthier climate. The days of the waxing . 
were looked upon as more auspicious than the days of the 
waning Moon, and the New Moon day was looked upon 
specially inauspicious. These notions can aed P e 
regarded as marking the beginning of Astrology in india 
although no systematic record of them is found ia any 
independent treatise or chapter of any religious book. 


7 Influence of planets. 


4. As the knowledge of Astronomical facts was 
essentia! for the timely performance of several religious and 
semi-religious activities, definite progress, ‘of course, was 
made in Astronomy. In Astrology, no marked progress 
was made for several centuries beyond the notions that 
certain days of the month and certain periods of the year 
were more auspicious than others by virtue of the different 
relative positions of the Sun and the Moon, as also by 
virtue of their position among the different constellations of 
stars. All these notions which were originally based upon 

. actual facts and phenomena developed into matters of 
belief in course of time under changed conditions and 
environments ; and occult influence of stars and planets was 
generally believed to be responsible for the success or other- 
wise of different activities undertaken at different moments. 
Several planets, Venus, Jupiter and others were discovered 
and their movements were-studied. The ideas in connection 
With the Sun and the Moon were extended i 
tion to the other planets also, 
existence that 


n their applica- 
and a general belief came into 
just like the Sun and the Moon, the planets 
and stars too, exerted dccult influence on ‘human activities, 
This marked a radical step in the progress of the Science of 
Astrology in India and the Atharva J yotisa or Atmajyotisg 


4 Unadesa Stitra 


‘can be said tobe the earliest literary manual oe 

Ra's , i 
these notions and beliefs in a direct and systemat 
manner, rf 


Atharva Jyotisa—the oldest treatise on Astrology. 

5. Atharva-Jyotisa, which is also known by the name 
Atma-Jyotisa, cannot claim, some scholars say, that cra nd 
which the Jyotisa of Lagadha claims, On account © sie 
mention of the occurrence of the Winter and the amar 
Solstices at the beginning of Sravistha and the middle o 
Aslesa, the latter work can well nigh be assigned to the ‘13th 
century B.C. Just as the Jyotisa of Lagadha and Yajusa 
Jyotisa discuss the problems of Astronomy with a view to 
fixing the various days for purposes of sacrifices and other 
religious ceremonies, similarly the Atharva Jyotisa discusses 
the problems of Astrology with a view to seeing whether a 
particular religious or other activity connected with a 

" particular day or a period of the day would be successful or 
not ; and there is hardly any reason why out of the three 
treatises—all known by the common term Vedaiga Jyotisa— 
the Atharva Jyotisa only should be looked upon as much 
modern in comparison with the other two treatises. The 
Sarhhita of Vrddha Garga, which is to-day available in 
Manuscripts, quotes almost all chapters of the Atharva 
Jyotisa ; but, in the absence of any definite data for the date 
of the Garga Samhita, no definite conclusion can be drawn 
regarding the date of the Atharva Jyotisa, However, the 
subject matter and the method of treatment followed in the 
Atharva Jyotisa show the antique nature of the treatise. 


Mention of the week days in the Atharva Jyotisa. 


6. The mention of Varas or the week days—Sunda 
Monday, Tuesday etc. is the only argument which could be 
adyanced against the antiquity of the Atharya Tyotisa 


Introduction 5 
. 

The names of the week days are mentioned in books of 

Varaha-Mihira 'as also in the Jyotisa Siddhanta books, 


On epigraphical evidence it can be said tha e week-days 
were in actual use in the second century A. D. The 


question, which remains to be considered, is whether they 
were in popular use side by side with the Tithis before the 
Christian Era. The fact, that the seven week-days Sunday, 
Monday etc., named after the seven well-known planets, are 
uniformly observed by the same names alike in various 
countries, shows that they must have got a common place 


of origin. There is no mention of week-days in any work 
of the Vedic or -Vedic or Mahabharata period. 


In ancient times, the date of an event was mentioned by 
means of the number of the day in the month. The day 
of a religious rite was mentioned by means of the lunar 
month, the fortnight and the number of the iunar day or 


‘tithi’. Later on, there were added the name of year 
and the positio sun, the Moor iter in the 
—————— 


Zodiac. The record of historical events was kept by means 
of the name and number of the year in the prevalent era of 
‘the Province, the Lunar month and the Lunar day. 


THE OLD INDIAN CALENDAR 


Calculation of days in Vedic times. 


7. The calculation of the Lunar Day or ‘ tithi? was a 
very simple one before the time of the Vedatiga Jyotisa 
(about 1400 B C.). There were 12 lunar months consist-- 
ing of 30 days and 29 days alternately, the dave being 
generally counted from one Full Moon to the next Full 
Moon. The months were named after the Naksatra or 
Lurar mansion observed to rise with the Moon on the Fall- 
Moon Day, and thereafter every day at sunset well-nigh till 
the next Full Moon Day. The days were counted jn seria] 





6 Upadesa 8 titra 


order—first, second, third etc. oe commencing with 
the day ofthe Full Moon. ef. » 4g2iit’ azaqxiinmaredt g 
sigalg | gat gion Hayat Taga (Aer). The ending 
‘titha’ of several or dins ul ‘numerals and pronouns like ‘bahu,’ 
‘ yavat,’ and ‘tavat’ shows that there was the word ‘ tithi’ 
meaning serial order in very ancient times, which was used 
in the Masculine or Feminine Gender in accordance with its 
reference to the day or the night. The adjustment of the 
Lunar year to the Solar or Seasonal year was made by the 
addition of 2 lunar months every 5 years, cf, a8 qeqa 4a 
@) arargasiaa: | mera Muze ). 
The Vedic Calendar. 

8. The Vedanea Jyotisa introduced greater accuracy 
in the Ancient Vedic Calendar which could be called Astro- 
Luni-Solar as the position of the Sun and the Moon in 
particular Asterisms marked the close of the year. The 
seasons were very carefully calculated, the Solar year being 
divided into six seasons of 61 civil days for each. Two 
civil months made 60 civil days, while two lunar months 
made 59 civil days. When the period of 62 tithis was, 
adjusted to the period of one season of 61 civil days, 
one tithi had to be dropped which was called ‘avama- 
dina’ or ‘avama-ratra’ or ‘avama-tithi’. So also, when 
the season of 61 civil days was adjusted to two civil 
months, a day had to be added which was called ‘ati-ratra.’! 
The difference between the Astral year and the Solar year 

~eonsisting of about 20 minutes was not noticed, although it 
can be stated that just like the Lunar Ayana of about 133 
civil days or the Solar Ayana of 183 days, the phenomenon 
of Astral Ayana was also known. ‘The period of the 


Astral Ayana made up of thousands of years was not 


1, For details see the article on “ Omission and Repetition of Tithis ” 
Annals ( B. O, R,1) Vol. XXVIII Parts I-II pp. 97-101, x {6-1 ) 
2% 194F 





Introduction 7 


stated with definiteness in earlier books although it could 
be inferred to be a period of 14400 years from passages in 
books like the Surya Siddhanta. This phenomenon of 
Astral Ayana, named ‘ Ayanacalana’ later on, is the same 
as the precession of the Equinoxes. ' : 


Calculation of Tithis. 


9. Just as the mean month (Savana Masa) was taken 
to consist of 30 civil days, similarly the Lunar month was 
taken to consist of 30 lunar days which were termed ‘tithis’. 
Each lunar day was made up of $4 civil day or roughly 
99 ghatikas. In short, 62 lunar days or tithis were exactly 
equal to 61 civil days which made a season. The com- 
mencement of the season always coincided with the com. 
mencement of the tithi or the lunar day. The first tithi or’ 
pratipad of the dark half of Asadha coincided every five 
years with the beginning of the Pravrt season, as the Jain 
authors, who followed the dictums of the Vedanga Jyotisa 
and wrote their religious treatises, have observed. The first 
tithi or ‘ pratipad’ lasted for 5931; ghatikas, after which the 
second or ‘dvitiya’ commenced, for which also, the duration 
was the same and, therefore, which ended on that day at 
about 58 ghatikas approximately after Sunrise. The third 
or tritiya lasted for about 57 ghatikas after Sunrise, the 
fourth for about 56 ghatikas and soon. The 61st Tithi or 
the Pratipad of the dark half of Bhadrapada lasted for about 
one ghatika only after Sunrise when the second or ‘dvitiya’ 
commenced whose end coincided exactly with the end of 
the day. As a result, on the next day at Sunrise, there began 

» the third or ‘trtiya’ of the dark half of Bhadrapada along | 
with the next season ‘ Varsa.’ The second tithi of the dark 





St 
J. For Details see the article on * The Precession ofthe Equinoxes 


and its discovery in India ” “Aearya Dhruva Smaraka Grantha” Part IIt 
pp, 155-7. 


8 Upadeba Siitra 


of Bhadrapada, which had no Sunrise in it, was termed 
‘avama-tithi’ or ‘ patita-tithi” or ‘ Ksina-tithi,’ while the 
first of the dark half of Bhadrapada was called ‘ atiratra.’ 


The 27 “Nakgatras and their relation to the seven planets. 


10. In the ancient times of the later Sarihitas and 
Brahmanas, the 27 Naksatras or Lunar mansions, Krttika, 
Rohim, Mrga etc. were associated with Agni, Prajapati, 
Soma ete. as their Presiding Dyities, with reference to whicl 
there was determined the benefic or malefic nature of the 
individual Naksatras. The moon, by virtue of his pre- 
sence in a Naksatra, was believed to vive the specific fruit 
of that Naksatra. After the planets Veuus, Jupiter and the 
_ like were discovered, they were also believed to be influencing 
the destinies of man. Each one of the planets was believed 
to be highly influential in a particular Naksatra which was 
significantly associated with him on account of some anci- 
ent legend or phenomenon. The Moon was associated with 
the bright prominent constellation Rohini, which the Moon 
was observed to penetrate some times. Mars was associat- 
ed with the constellation Abhijit, as he, the War-God, gave 
success to the Pandavas on the Abhijit Day i. e. the day on 
which the Moon was in Abhijit. Mercury was connected 
with Phalgunis. Jupiter was associated with Punarvasu 
and Pusya, as he was noticed first in that constellation as 
the belief goes, and ia said to be the lord of Tisya in the 
Vedic Sarmhitas. Venus was associated with Prosthapadas ; 
and, lastly, Saturn was associated with Visakha possibly 
because Saturn is looked upon as a Bania (Vanik) and the 
“constellation Visakha is just like the scales. Thus, the six 
planets were believed to be in their ascendant in these six 
Naksatras. The Naksatra Magha was looked upon as the 
Sun’s Naksatra, as, possibly in those days the entry of the 





Introduction 9, 


Sun into that Naksatra marked the beginning of the year 
which at the time coincided with the setting in of the Rainy 
Season. The seven planets presented the following order 
when arranged according to their constellations noticed 
above : ~The Sun was the leader in Magha, then followed 
Jupiter in Punarvasu, then the Moon in Rohini, then Venus 
in Uttara Prosthapada, then Mars in Abhijit, then Saturn 
in Visakha and lastly Mercury in Uttara Phalguni. 


Caleulation of civil days by Karanas. 


11, “As observed above, people followed the Lunar 
Calendar in those days for mentioning the day, and quoted 
the ‘ tithi’ or the lunar day in connection with their religi- 
ous rites, which was counted in serial order as first, second 
etc. from the Full Moon Day. When, however, exact cal- 
culation was introduced in connection with the duration of 
the Tithi by writers of the Vedaiga Jyotisas, and the Tithi no 
longer commenced and ended with Sun-rise, the mention of 
the Tithi became very inconvenient, as, sometimes there 
was not the same tithi for the noon as for the morning. 

- People had to quote and they did quote the actual tithi at 
the time for religious rites, but, for secular purposes, a unit 
had to be found out which could last from one Sunrise to 
another Sunrise, or from Sunrise to Sunset and from Sun- 
set to Sunrise. This Unit of measurement was the Karana, 
or Instrument by which the civil days and° nights were 
counted, one Karana being taken for day-time and another 
for the night time. There were seven Karanas taken, possibly 
corresponding to the number of planets which was seven. 
The seven planets ruled the seven Karanas and the order of 
the planets was according to the Naksatras in which they 

"were in their Ascendant, the lead of course being given to 
the Sun. The order was—the Sun, Jupiter, the Moon, 
Venus, Mars, Saturn and Mercury. 

2 





10 Upadesa Sutra 
THE ORIGIN OF WEEK-DAYS. 


The origin of Vara from the Karanas— Astrological basis. 7 

12. The Karanas completed one round in 34, civil 
days. The lunar months, as adjusted to the civil months 
consisted of 30 and 29 civil days alternately. ‘The Karanas 
completed 8 rounds in 28 civil days, and for the two remain- 
ing days four supplementary Karanas were added named 
Sakuni, Catuspad, Naga and Kaustubha with ordinary deities 
ofthe common people to preside over them. The end of Bava 
Karana and the beginning of Balava Karana coincided with 
the Full Moon of each month marking the commencement 
of the dark fortnight. Although the seven planets are not 
directly mentioned as rulers of the seven Karanas, still, 
from works like the Atharva Jyotisa, the association of the 
respective 7 planets with the respective 7 Karanas can he 
inferred. As there were different Karanas for the nights from 
those for the days, and as different Xaranas were governed hy 
different planets, popularly the night was called such and 
such a planet’s night, as also the day as such and sucha 
planet’s day. Thus, the day, marked by Bava Karana, was 
called the day of Ravi or Ravivasara, the night that follow- 
ed, being marked with Balava Karana, was called the night 
of Jupiter or Gururatri. The next day was called Soma- 
vasara, the night following was called Sukraratri, the next 
day Bhaumavasara, the night following Saniratri and so 
on. Asthe nights were not required for any religious 
rites nor for ordinary important events, they were ignored, 
and the days alone were taken in their order of succession 
~—Ravivasara, Somavasara, Bhaumavdsara etc. This ex. 
plains the underlying idea of the popular supposition “ the 
bad significance of the Vara does not apply to night” 
(na varadosab prabhavanti ratrau). It also explains why 
plans made on the night of Friday are believed not to sue- 





Introduction bl 


ceed as the night succeeding Friday—the day of Venus— 
is the night of Mars, 


Karanas supplanted by Varas. 


13. From the nature of the various deities as rulers - 
of the various Karanas, it can be well inferred that the 
Karanas were utilized for calculating the civil days after 
an event took place, among all people irrespective of religi- 
ous bias of‘any kind. The mention of Kubera and Mani- 
bhadra does not necessarily imply a very late date for the 
Karanas being in vogue. The Yaksas are mentioned in the 
Mahabharata, Kubera is mentioned by Kalidasa and Mani- 
bhadra is the brother of Kubera. The Yaksas are men- 
tioned in the old Jain Scriptures also. The notions of 
Yaksas, Gandharvas and the like could very well be current 
in India, well nigh some ten centuries even before the 
Christian Era, The earliest mention of the word Yaksa 
(‘ yaksas’ Neuter Sing. like ‘ raksas’) inan allied sense is 
found, in fact, in the ancient Upanisad Books. The Karanas 
are not foundin any Vedic Sarbhitas or Brahmanas. The 
earliest reference to them is found in the Atharva J yotisa 

and the Jain Scriptures which are believed to be composed 
a few centuries before the Christian Era. In all these works 
the Karanas are mentioned in connection with Astrological 
predictions. The use of Vasara or week-day was thus only 
a modification of the use of Karana, and when people began 
to make a free use of the Vasara for Karana, the latter 
became more and more out of vogue and fell into disuse, 
The original association of the Karanas with the tithis, how- 
ever, continued ; and in course of time, when the tithis were 
more accurately calculated by Sripati and other _writers_of 
the eleventh century A. D. who fixed thelr mange from 54 
fo 6d chatikas. the Karana was made to coincide with 
Saails one tl E of the tithi, The Karans, coinciding with 











22 Upadesa Sutra 


of little utility and hence quite 


half the tithi, was, in fact, PES 
rse of time it came to 


superfluous, and, consequently, in cou 
be omitted in the detailed mention of the day. 


Notion of week. 


14,. Asthe circle of the seven Karanas occurre 
times ina month, it was probably named ‘ astavrtta : : 
‘ astavrtta’ (repeated 8 times). The word ‘astavrtté 18 
atthavatta or atthavadda in Prakrit and the Gujarati word 
‘athavadiuzh’ or the Marathi word ‘athavada’ can. ke 

. traced to it. This relationship of athavada or ‘athavadiu ’ 
with ‘astavrtta”’ explains the significance of the part ‘ath’ 
(8) in the word which otherwise remains obscure for ex- 
planation, as the word ‘ath’ can refer in no other way to 

‘the actual number of daysin a week. ‘This explanation 
holds good more aptly in the caseof Karanas which are 
repeated 8 times in a month, than in the case of the week 
which repeats only 4 timesa month. Probably, the word 
‘atthavadda’ was originally applied to the group of the 
seven Karanas, and then by analogy to the seven days 
of the planets which replaced the seven Karanas in course 
of time. 


d 8 
or 


Three groups of Naksatras. 


15." The origin of the Week-days in India long before 
the beginning of the Christian Era can also be inferred on 
the strength of the ancient astrological notions prevalent ’ 
in the days of the Vedanga Jyotisa. The 27 constellations 
or Naksatras, mentioned with their deities in the Taittiriya 
Samhita and Brahmana, were put into three groups named 
Janma, Adhana and Karma by the astrologers of the anci- 
ent times of the Vedanga Jyotisa. The astrologers further 
designated the nine Naksatras in each group by the ying 


Introduction 1B. 


respective names—Janma (birth), Sarhpat (prosperity), 
Vipat (adversity), Ksema (health), Pratvara (alacrity), 
Sadhaka (victory), Vadha (death), Maitra ( friendship ) and 
Paramamaitra (real friendship). The lunar mansions, 
Rohini, Hasta and Sravana marked the beginning of each 
group. Sravana is mentioned in a passage in the Maha-. 
bharata also, as the first of the lunar mansions. The first 
place, given to Sravana, shows that the entry of the Sun 
into Sravana marked the beginning of the Uttarayana in 
those days. This could happen when the Winter Solstice 
was at the beginning of the Mansion Sravana, i. e, about 
900 years after the time of the Vedanga Jyotisa of 
Lagadha which mentions the commencement of the 


Uttarayana as characterized by the Sun entering into 
Dhanistha. 


Planets arranged on the analogy of Naksatras. 


16. After the planets were discovered and their 
nature and special characteristics were determined for astro- 
logical purposes, possibly by means of their colour and 
brilliance, they were also arranged in an order on the 
principles and analogy underlying the arrangement of the 
nine Naksatras in each of the three groups. The arrange- 
ment of the nine constellations influencing the general 
career of a man, in his life here and hereafter, was followed 
in the case of the seven planetsalso: The Sun of a brilli- 
ant white colour influencing the birth and vital principles in 
man was naturally put first; then the planet of a pale 
white colour and possessed of placid cool rays, influencing 
the mental disposition and prosperity of man was placed 
next ; then followed Mars, the fierce planet, the red col- 
oured War God, influencing adversity and general cala- 
mities. . The fourth place was given to the feeble planet 
Mercury of a greenish white colour, signifying security 


M4 Upadesa Sutra 


health.and recovery from diseases ; the next place deter- 
mining facility of fight?(pratyari) and alacrity (pratvara) was 
given to the most powerful benefice planet J upiter of a yel- 
low auspicious colour. ‘The sixth place of Sadhaka or suc- 
cess in life was given to Venus, the bright beautiful planet, 
of a sparkling white colour, influencing victory in the 
struggle of life as also the Life Consort. Lastly, thare was 
placed the dark white planet Saturn called Sani, or; Yama, 
influencing death and dark deeds. 


Week-days named after the planeis. 


17. The order of planets, thus arranged on the prin- 
ciples enunciated in or, underlying in the line “janma 
sampad vipat ksema pratvarah (v. |. pratyarih ) sadhako 

vadhah. Maitrah parama-maitrasca” occurring in the 
Atharva Jyotisa as an original one, or perhaps a quotation, 
was followed, it could be well presumed, in the arrangement 
of the Civil days also, which were arranged in groups of 
seven and named after the seven planets. It is quite possi- 


ble that the days, arranged and named as stated above, were 


mentioned and recorded for ordinary events in life uncon- 
nected with religious rites and ceremonies, even in ancient 
times of the Vedanga J yotisa treatises. The tithis, the 
fortnight and the month and possibly the season and the 
Ayana were of course in force in connection with religious 
rites. The week-days were very useful in removing the 
difficulty of stating the tithi, which many times arose on 
account of the end. of a tithi and the commencement of the 
next atany time of the day. This difficulty confronted the 
ordinary people when the Vedanga Jyotisa of Lagadha fixed 
59 ghatikas as the duration of a tithi which resulted-in the 
tithis being sometimes different for the morning and the 
noon, or for the noon and the afternoon or for the after- 
noon and the evening. The difficulty increased still more 


Introduction 15 
when Shripati and other astronomers of the 10th century 
A.D, introduced more accuracy in the calculations. Some- 
times the lunar date or the tithi for the afternoon ed 
previous day remained the same after the morning of the 
next day, sometimes there remained the same tithi for the 
next afternoon ; while, sometimes the afternoon, or noon OF 
morning, for the matter of that, had a drop of a tithi, one 
afternoon or morn showing the second Tithi ( Dvitiya ) for 
example, and the next afternoon or morn showing the 
‘fourth Tithi ( Caturthi.). Some people, in spite of ‘the 
accuracy introduced in the calculation of the tithis or lunar 
dates, still continued the old practice of taking the tithi at 
Sunrise for the whole day and night right up to the next 
Sunrise. Ail these difficulties could not be removed unless 
some unit of time, corresponding to the civil day, was in- 
troduced, and hence it was that the Karana and the Vasara 
were introduced, at first for recording dates of ordinary and 
historical events, and, then, side by side with the tithi for 
religious rites us well. 


Astronomical basis for week days. 


18. A third explanation of the origin of the week 
days, based mainly on astronomical grounds, can be offered 
as follows:—The planets were arranged in the order of 
their distance from the earth as determined by . their 
motion in the Zodiac. The Moon was the fastest, being the 
nearest and hence was placed first. Then followed Mercury, 
then Venus, and the Sun. After the Sun were placed Mars, 
Jupiter and Saturn. The day, which was divided into 60 
ghatikas, had the ghatikas in succession assigned to the 
planets in succession, arranged in the order of their proxi. 

-mity to the earth given above. The ruler of, the first 
ghatika of the day was looked upon as the ‘general ruler: of 
the day, the other planets, who followed him for the 49 


16 Upadesa Sutra | 
Ss i rulers, each one 
ghatikas of the day, being rage gee catch rer 
giving fruit of the action, only in “ed with the Moon 
share. In this order, if a day sale he general ruler 
_ as the ruler of the first ghatika and hence, we - wales of 
of the whole day, he became, also the ge ie 
ghatikas numbered 8, 15, 22, 29, BG, Be, eh ae shes of 
_ Next to him viz. Mercury became the subordinate ru —e 
ghatikas 2,9... 58. Next to him i. e Venus became he 
subordinate ruler of ghatikas 3, 10... 59 on the same ny ’ 
. Next to him, namely the Sun became the subordinate ruler 
of ghatikas numbered 4, 11 ... 53 and 60. Mars who a 
ceeded him became the subordinate ruler of ghatikas 9, 12... 
54 and 61. As ghatika No. 31 was the first ghatika of the 
next day, Mars became the general raler of the next day. 
The general rulers, in this way, were, evidently, the Moon, 
Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn and the Sun in 
succession for the successive days, which were named 
Monday, Tuesday, etc. in a serial order. Thus, it is 
evident on the grounds given above that the week days 
originated in India several centuries before the Christian 
Era, and they were in use, especially in connection with 
ordinary events and historical facts, although for religious 
rites ‘there were mentioned the month and the lunar day or 
tithi. The Week day, as shown above, was, no doubt, more 
convenient than the Lunar day or the tithi; but being only 
a matter of mere convention, it could not replace the tithi 
outright as the latter stood closely connected with the 
presence of the Moon in the various Naksatras and as the 
distance of the Moon from the Sun on which the tithi 
depends could very well be verified by means of actual 
observation and calculation.* 





7 * For details see the articlé on “ Indian Origin of the week-days” in 
Poona Orientalist Vo), XII Nos. 1 to 4. Pp. 62-68. 


Introduction 17 


ATHARVA JYOTISA 


Astrological ideas in the Atharva Jyotisa. 


19. The astrological data, furnished by the _Atharva 
Jyotisa, are very interesting and thought-provoking, and 
henee, it is necessary to inquire into the reason why specific 
statements have been made there in connection with specific 
results occurring under specific circumstances. For example, 
in connection with Muhirta, Karana, tithi and Naksatra, 
specific undertakings are recommended for specific classes of 
people. In point of importance, the Muharta is placed first ° 
and, then, the Karana, the Naksatra and the tithi are given 
as less and less important. The Moon is said to be supreme- 
ly important in determining the fortune of man, and the 
Naksatras that are looked upon as his consorts with their 
presiding deities as their souls are looked upon as giving 
fruit in their association with him. The spring equinox 
was near the prominent star of Rohini (Aldebaran) in those 
days (67 x 72 years before the present time), and hence, it 
was, that Rohini was placed at the beginning of the first 
group of 9 Naksatras. It is called ‘janma’ as ‘Prajapati’ 
is given as its deity ; similarly, Hasta and Sravana, that 
stand at the beginning of the second and third groups, are 
also called ‘janma’. The second Naksatras in the three 
groups, viz. Mrga, Citra, and Sravistha (Dhanistha) are 

called ‘ Sarnpat’ Naksatras ; the first having Soma, the lord 
of wealth and cattle as its deity, the second ‘ Citra’ having 
‘wealth’ as its meaning, and the third signifying wealth by 
its second name ‘dhanistha,’ The thirds in the groups = 

the three red-coloured stars -- are aptly termed ‘ vipad ’ on 
account of the ferocious nature of their presiding deities, 
The three fourth Naksatras viz. Punarvasu, Visakha and 
Parvaprosthapada are looked upon as benefic and *hence 

3 





18 Upadesa Sutra 


fih Naksatras of the three groups 
d Uttara Prosthapada are looked 
f their beneficent 


termed ksema ; the three fi 
viz. Pusya, Anuradha an 
upon. as specially blissful on account | () 
deities and therefore called ‘pratvara. The sixths in the 
groups, Aglesa, J yestha, and Revati are looked upon as bad 
on account of their deities. Their names, however, signify 
union and success, and hence, they are called Sadhaka, ’. 
The seyenths, Magha, Mula and Asvayu] are connected 
with manes and hence looked upon as malefic ; and being 
malefic, they are aptly called ‘vadha.’ 


Auspicious and inauspicious Naksatras. 


20. The explanation given above, applies more pros 
perly with reference to the first group—Kohini to Uttara 
Phalguni—than to the other groups; by analogy, however, it 
may be applied to the other groups. It is also evident that 
some Naksatras.have their nature understood differently 
from what it could be, merely on account of convention, 
although their presiding deities or names indicate the other 
way; for instance, Sviti, Satabhisak and Jyestha, are looked 
upon as bad, because they happen to be the third or sixth 

‘in the group; Visakha came to be looked uponas bad, 
because it happened at that time to be just at the equinox 
which was looked upon as inauspicious, being a joint: 
Revati, on the contrary, although sixth, was taken to 
be auspicious, especially on account of its name 
* revati’ (affluent). It was only a mere coincidence that 
the third and the sixth in the groups happened to be 
malefic; while the first, the fifth and the ninth happened to 
be benefic. The Vedic Astrologers, hence, picked up Rohini, 
Pusya, Hasta, Anuradha, Sravana, Revati and Agvini on 
blissful Naksatras forming the Amrtasiddhi Yoga with 
particular week-days. Garga and the Jain Astrologers 
preferred the fourth to the fifth, und accepted Rohini 


) 


; Introduction » 19 
Punarvasu, Uttara Phalguni, Visakha, Uttarasadha and 
Uttara Prosthapada as beneficent and long asterisms of 20 
degrees each; they took Bharani, Ardra, Aslesa, Svati, 
Jyestha and Satabhisal as malefic and short asterisms of 64 
degrees each, ‘The reason for the preference of the fourth 
to the fifth was, that the word ‘pratvara,’ as also ‘pratyari’, 
was possibly taken in a bad sense by them. It is not defi- 
nite whether ‘pretvara’ was the original word and ‘pratyari’ 
& variant’ or vice versa, The available manuscripts of Garga 
give clearly the reading ‘pratyari’ everywhere. 


Benefic and malefic planets, 


21, The red and the black were taken generally as 
bad colours, evidently on the supposition that they res- 
pectively represented fury (rajas) and malignance (tamas); 
and, inasmuch as Mars and Saturn respectively possessed 
these colours, they were looked upon as malefic planets. 
The serial order of planets—the Sun, the Moon, Mars etc.- 
which is observed in the Atharva Jyotisa, is followed by all 
later writers in Astrology, although, for purposes of deter- 
mining the relative strength of the planets and determining 
the Dasas, a different serial order is followed on account of 
specific reasons. 


Influence of planets on man and nature. 


22. Although the nature and characteristics of pla- 
nets are not clearly mentioned in the Atharva J yotisa, still, 
they ‘can be inferred to a certain extent from the specific re- 
commendation of certain activities.on the different week days 
which are named after the planets: The sun is connected 
with all activities bélonging to the king as also to the sacred 
fire. The Moon is connected with drinks, auspicious decorg- 
tions, cultivation and planting of trees, Mars is associated 


90. Upadesa Sutra 


with invasions, attacks, martial exercises and an? Mer- 
cury is associated with,embassy, peace, policy, concl mens 
etc. Jupiter is connected with study of scriptures, wors ip 
of deities, religious rites, renunciation, garments etc. Venus 
js connected with riding of horses and elephants, marriage, 
partnership, sale and purchase of things and the like. 


ith building constructions, residence, 


Saturn is associated wi ice 
occupation of houses etc. From the mention of the activi 
days by virtue 


ties that are frustrated on the different week 
of the association of different planets when they are 
unfavourable, some more information can be gathered 
regarding the planets and their influence. For example, 
the Sun can be said to be associated with family ties, 
the Moon with security, Mars with diseases, Mercury 
with relatives, Jupiter with intellect, Venus with wealth 
and Saturn with residence. Hence, it is, that, in case they 
are unfavourable, they respectively cause family calamity, 
danger, occurrence of disease, trouble from relatives, mental 
derangement, loss of wealth and wandering. All this which 
has been given in connection with the planets has become 
the basis of the observations and statements of later astro- 
logers like the Vrddhas and Jaimini. 


Tithis and their properties. 


23. The tithis which measure the distance of the 
Moon from the Sun, are divided just on the analogy of the - 
Naksatras into 3 groups, each group consisting of 5 tithis, 
named Nanda, Bhadra, Jaya, Rikta and Purna, occurring 
repeatedly in succession and associated respectively with the 
five minor planets, Venus, Mercury, Mars, Saturn and 
Jupiter. The results are given according to the nature of the 
planets, the fourth tithi in each group, called ‘ rikta ’, being 
looked upon as inauspicious on account of its association 
with Saturn. The second tithi in the group called by the 


; a1 
Introduchon 


‘ it 
term Bhadra and associated with the planet Budha has 1ts 


name coinciding with the name ‘ hhadra’ given to the 

i i ‘ far ‘vigti? which also has the 
period of time of the Karana ~ vie: ie isons 
planet Budha associated with it. Nanda tith ‘ I i 
associated with the planet Sukra whose nabure s P ake 
and charming. Jaya is also well associated with Mars, han 
is the war god and gives success when favourable. he 
association of Saturn, the malignant planet, with the fourth 
viz. ‘rikta’ requires hardly any explanation; $0 also, the 
association of Jupiter, the most benevolent planet, with the 
fifth tithi ‘parna’ needs no explanation. The nature of the 
various tithis is given, evidently, according to the nature 
of the planet, the fourth in each group, called ‘rikta’, 
being looked upon as always inauspicious. 


Joints and sub-joints of the fortnight. 


24. An interesting feature about the tithis is that 
the fourth, the eighth, the twelfth and the last in each fort- 
night are looked upon as always inauspicious, The reason 
possibly for this was that they formed the joints and sub- 
joints of the month and there was the general notion pre- 
valent about thé joints of anything being inauspicious. 
Later on, when the Zodiac of 360 degrees was divided into 
twelve equal parts, its joints at 45°, 90°, 135°, 180°, were 
looked upon as inauspicious, and, as a consequence, the 
aspects also at those angles came to be looked upon as bad 
aspects. The ancient astrologers, in fact, believed that the 
Sun and the Moon at 45° (semi square), at 90° (square), at 
135° (sesquiquadrate) and at 180° (opposition) from each 
other did not holdany good aspect towards each other. 
Applying this consideration by analogy to the other planets, 
later astrologers looked upon the aspects at the angles 

presented by these degrees to be inauspicious. As the 


22 Upadesa Sutra 


Parna tithis i. e. the fifths and the tenths occurred when the 
Moon’s angle with the Sun was 60° or 120° degrees, the 
aspects at angles made by these degrees came to be looked 


upon as very auspicious, 
‘ Muhiirtas. 


25. A critical examination of the Muhurta forecasts 
in the Vedatiga Jyotisa of the Atharva Veda shows that the 
periods or Muhirtas at sunrise and sunset were regarded 
as bad, the reason probably being that the passages of the 
religious Grhya Sttras forbade the sight of the rising 
and the setting Sun ( “neksetodyantamadityain nastam 
yantarh kadacana’’), The prohibition of the sight of the 
Sun was possibly due to the fact that the Sun presents at 
those times a red appearance which is inauspicious. The 
fourth Muhurta ( Arabhata ) was also considered bad. The 
fruits of activities undertaken during the different Muhurt as 
are described in consideration of the names of the different 
Muhurtas. There are given 15 Muhurtas from the day-break 
to the evening with the eighth Muhurta named ‘abhijit’ 
occurring at Mid-day. The Mubhurtas, stated for the night, 
are the same in name, as those stated for the day. Taking 
the ‘raudra’ Muhurta at day break and the ‘bhaga’ Muhurta 
in the evening common for the night and the day, and, 
hence lasting for 4 ghatikas—two of the day and two of the 
night—the total number of Muhurtas comes to be 28 with 
the Muhurta ‘abhijit’ occurring at mid-day and midnight. 
The name ‘ abhijit ’ of the central Muhurta, and the coinci- 
dence of the number of Muhurtas (28) with that of the 
Naksatras, can well nigh supply a ground for the inference 
that the circle of constellations or Naksatras was arranged 
in the Heavenly Vault as a standard circle with Abhijit 
at the Zenith, Asvini at the eastern point of the horizon, 
Pusya at the nadir and Svati at the western point, 





Introduetion 23 
for the general purpose of forecasting the success or other- 
wise of events. The fate of events was determined differ- 
ently at different moments, in accordance with the Naksatra 
standing at the eastern point of the horizon or at the zenith, 
at the particular moment of the event: 


The earliest use of the term Lagna and its meaning. 


26. The reason, why different periods of the day 
should have ‘different kinds of significance, and be 
more favourable or otherwise than others for specific 
activities, can only be furnished by the different posi- 
tions of the Sun in the Heavenly Vault at different 
periods of time. In other words, the portion of the 
ecliptic circle in the sky touching (lagna) the eastern hori- 
zon and supposed to signify the earth, was believed to give 
different results at different tinies, on account of its, relative 
position with the Sun. This notion, that the - different 
constellations, or, different parts of the ecliptic, touching 
( lagna or samlagna or vilagna ) the horizon could give 
different fruits in accordance with their specific nature, was 
the basis of the horary astrology which developed later 
on in India and elsewhere. The word ‘lagna’ is found 
used in this sense in the Jain Literature of some 
centuries before the Christian Era. The earliest veference 
to ‘lagna ’ can be spotted in the line “gravisthadin gana- 
bhyastan prag vilagnan vinirdiset” in the Vedanga J yotisa, 
which, not only proves the use of the term ‘lagna’ in the 
sense of the constellation touching the horizon, but, by the 
mention of the word ‘ganabhyasta’, clearly refers to the 
practice of counting the 27 Naksatras in succession as 
‘vilagna’ or touching the horizon at eastern point (prak). 
The line means “The astrologer should call, in succession, 
the naksatras with ‘sravistha’ as the first as, ‘vilagna’? 


24 Upadesa Sutra 


i (separately touching the horizon) at the ha a 

‘repeating the group of the Naksatras. e Naksatra 
‘ gravistha ’ is put at the head in the line , 98 there was the 
Winter Solstice at the commencement of Sravistha in those | 
days, the quinquennium ( yuga ) of the luni-solar year 
starting With the Sun and the Moon both together in the 
beginning of Sravistha on the first day of the month of 
Magha (cf. .‘ Sravisthadau pravartante ete. Vedanga 


Jyotisa-of Lagadha ). 
, Importance of the eastern point of the horizon. 


27. However useful and current the astrological, 
conceptions given in the Atharva Jyotisa could be,and how- 
ever successfully the time factor was made to account for 
the different fruits obtained by different persons by virtue 
of undertaking different activities at different moments, 
people could not explain why out of the several persons 
beginning the same activity at the same moment, some 
succeeded marvellously, some tolerably well, some did 
not,and someon the other hand, came to grief. Further 
development of the Lagna theory came io their help 
and the belief became current that the constellation rising 
at the eastern horizon, or, in other words, the part 
of the ecliptic touching the horizon at the east point at 
a particular critical time or at the time of the birth of 
a person was capable of holding great potentialities 
on account of the particular position'of the Sun, the Moon 
and other planets related to it at the time. The Sun was 
regarded as the ruler of life, and his position in the sky, at 
thé time of birth of the individual, went a great way in 
_ influencing the general career of the individual: The rela- 
tionship of the several planets to the lagna or the point of 
the ecliptic touching the eastern horizon at the time of 





Introduction 25 
birth determined the general nature of the individual. bis 
Sun was looked upon as influencing the soul and oy 
Moon determining the mental strength of the individual. 


Date of the Atharva Jyotisa. 


28. Thus, it is clear that the Atharva Jyotisa has laid 
down the foundation of modern astrology. The exact date 
of the Atharva Jyotisa isa matter of dispute; still it is 
obvious, as shown above, from a critical examination of the 
various observations made in it, that it was written definitely 
before the Christian Era, possibly before the seventh or the 
eighth century B.C. The objection to such an early date 
on the ground of the mention of the Vara or the week-days, 
can be set aside, as shown above, by the fact that the week 
days were in use in the civil life of the people several cen- 
turies before the Christian Era. It can also be said that the 
section on Vara or week-days could be an interpolation at a 
later date, since, in verse 12 of section seven on tithis, 
only four items—tithi, naksatra, karana and muhurta 
and not Vara,—are mentioned as useful for jdetermining 
auspicious or inauspicious time. In the holy Jain works 
too, only the four items—tithi, naksatra, karana and 
muhurta—are mentioned in connection with the events 
recorded therein, and there is no mention of ‘Vara’ at all. ° 


ASTROLOGY IN THE SIDDHANTA AND SUTRA PERIODS. 
The Rasi-Padas. 


2 29. The astrological notions, recorded briefly in the 
Atharva Jyotisa, were developed by later astrologers for a 
few centuries before the whole collection of astrological 
observations was presented in the form of systematic. 
treatises by Indian astronomers like the authors of the few 
Siddhantas, or by Greek astronomers like Ptolemy in the 


4 





96 Upadesa Sutra 


cus in the second century 
treatise ‘ Vrddbayavanaja- 
‘Yavanajataka’. It 
‘lagna’ was further 
dto the quarters of 


second century A:D. and Hippar 
B. C. or by. Minaraja in his ' 

‘taka’? or by King Sphujidhvaja in his 
was in this period that the notion of 
developed and importance was attache eh 
Naksatras for purposes of accuracy 10 the forecast. 4he 
Zodiac was divided into 108 quarter-Naksatras, out of which 
each quarter of the Zodiac consisted of 27 quarter-Naksatras. 

‘ The quarter-Zodiac was called the ‘pada’ or ‘ yasipada |, 
and for some time the astrological observations were made 
on the strength of the four ‘ rasipadas ’. These four padas 
are meiitioned in the Siitras of Jaimini and in the Karikas 
by Vrddha or Old Writers. They are indirectly alluded 
to in the Srauta and the Grhya Sutras and in the Jain 
Agama books. Baudhayaia actually divides the Zodiac 
into four divisions of 86 degrees each (sadasiti), and the 
remaining 16 degrees he detatches and consecrates the 16 
days, when the Sun is there, to the Manes. It is significant 
that Baudhayana mentions only four Rasis, Dhanus, Animi~ 
sa, Mithuna and Kanya, which exactly correspond to the 
four Rasipadas of astrologers of his time. From astro- 
nomical calculations based on the observations of Baudha- 
yana’in connection with the sadasitis, it can be concluded 
that Baudhayana lived about three centuries before the 
Christian Era. 

The Ragis. 

30. A few years later, each of these four divisions or 
padas was,,further divided into three parts, each part 
being equal to 30 degrees corresponding to the course 
traversed by the Sun in a Solar month. Thus, the 
twelve parts of the sky, came in- vogue, although they. 
were not given the individual names which are to-day 
current. They were called by the general name ‘ rasi’ 


Introduction. 


( heap or collection of nine quarter-Naksatras ) and not by 
any name like org or f@ meaning sign as they were 
called in Greece. The term ‘rasi’ is perfectly 0 sane 
term and it has more exactness in showing the distance of 
30° as contrasted with the term ‘sign’, the signs of Aries 
or Taurus in the Heavens not naturally being. equally _ 
distanced. The ‘ rasis’ were, thus, collections of nine parts 
called ‘ navarigas’, each ‘ navarnsa’ being exactly equal to 
a quarter-Naksatra. The Ragis were also divided into 3 
parts called, ‘dreskanas as also into twelve parts called 
dvadasarnsas’.’ In the work of Jaimini there are given the 
twelve divisions of the Zodiac, which are counted as first, 
second etc. The term’ ‘ rasi’ is used, hut there are no 
names like ‘Mesa’ etc. for these Rasis. 


‘ 


The Pata-Grahas. 


81, This period of time, following the Atharya 
Jyotisa Period and preceding the influence of the Greek 
astrology, could be termed as the Siddhanta and Sutra 
Period. The Siddhanta books of this period are 
marked by a considerable progress in the matter of 
mathematical calculations and actual observations espe- 
cially in. respect of the motions of the Sun and 
the other planets; they do not, however, show any progress 
worth the name with respect-to astrology. The Atharva 
Jyotisa recommended particular tithis, Naksatras, and 
Mubirtas for particular religious and other activities. It 
_ appears that people paid a special attention to this branch, 
‘and, taking. the dicta given in the Atharva Jyotisa as 
~ basis, they laid down particular combinations: of the tithis, 
Naksatras and Muhurtas as specially benefic or malefic. 
They recommended certain specific months, Naksatras and 
tithis as also certain combinations of two of these, or, of all 





98 Upadesa: Sttra 


the three, for certain rites and activities, or, for the _propi- 
tiation of certain benefic or malefic deities. It was in this 
period that the two riodes of the Moon’s heavenly course 
were noticed. They were called the two * patas oF pata- 
grahas ’ and were designated as ‘Rahu’ and ‘ Ketu ’. As the 
two nodes, which were the points of these two patas, moved 
in the heavens backwards, completing their round in about 
19 years, the so-called planets Rahu and Ketu made up of 
the two patas were also believed to have a backward 
motion of about 1 degree and thirty-five minutes per month. 
As their conjunction with the Sun and the Moon generally 
resulted into an eclipse, they were looked upon as malefic 
planets like the planets Mars and Saturn. 


The Mahapata Yoga. 


32. One more factor or anga viz. ‘Yoga’ was added 
to the five factors—Tithi, Naksatra, Karana, Muhurta and 
Vara—mentioned in the Atharva Jyotisa. The Yoga 
was based upon the degrees of the Right Ascension and 
Declination of the Sun and the Moon. Originally, there 
was mentioned only one Yoga called ‘mahapata’ occur- 
ring twice in each revolution of the Moon round the Sun. 
The Yoga was believed to occur when the Declination in 
degrees of the Sun and the Moon was the same, either on the 
‘same side of the Celestial Equator or on opposite sides 
of it. This, of course, happened when the sum of their 
degrees of Right Ascension counted from the point of the 
Spring Equinox was either 180 degrees or 360 degrees, 
In short, these Mah&patas can be said to occur when the 
Sun and the Moon are in the same line—vertically or 
horizontally—and they are believed tobe very inauspi- 

cious. The Yoga is called ‘ Vaidhrti’ when the sum 
of their Right Ascension is 860°, the Sun and the Moon 


Introduction 29 
being on opposite sides of the Celestial’ Equator, 
while it is called ‘ Vyatipata’ when the sum is 180 ; both 
the Sun and the Moon being on the same side of the Celestial 
Equator. The time of interval between two Vaidhrtis or 
two Vyatipatas was about 25 days, which was divided into 
27 equal parts on the analogy of Naksatras each part being 
called ‘yoga’. These 27 yogas were given individual names 
and they are given by calculations at present in the current 
Indian Almanacs. It has, of course, to be observed, that, 
on account of the precession of the equinoxes, the Yogas, 
which were calculated and entered in the Almanacs at the 
time of Varahamihira have no longer remained accurate 
and the error has to be corrected if the Mahapatas are to 
be observed at their correct time of occurrence. The word 
‘pata’ thus originally meant ‘incidence’ or ‘incidental 
occurrence’. The two great patas (Mahapatas viz. Vyatipata 
and Vaidhrti) were called Yogas, as the word ‘yoga’ 
was used in the sense of ‘coincidence’ or combination of 
twoor more astronomical or astrological items, such as 
positions of planets, the occurrences of tithis, naksatras, 
Parva tithis, week days. etc. 


Astronomical Yogas. 


33. The study of the different coincidences or Yogas 
appears to be a peculiar feature of the Siddhanta period of 
the development of Indian Astrology. The season , the 
month, the tithi, the naksatra, the vara or week-day, and the 
muburta or the moment of time were the different time-units 
whose combinations were carefully observed and considered 

’ by the Indian astrologers: mere tithis such as the 4th, the 11th, 
the 8th, and the Full and the New Moon days were chosen 
for certain religious offerings and observances; while for 
other religious rites like the Astakas, a combination of tithi 


40 Upadesa Sutra 


y. ‘The tithis combined with seasoh 
originally were found necessary for certain festivals or 
‘observances @. g. Aksayya Tritiya, Haritalika, si Paficamis 
Vijaya Dagami, ete. The place of season was taken later on 
by the month when seasons began to occur earlier and earlier 
on account of the Precession of the equinoxes. Some tithis 
only, when occurring at particular hours, were chosen for 
some religious rites; they were for exam ple Sarikasti 
Caturthi, the Trayodasi for the evening Siva worship, the 
Caturdasi for the midnight Siva worship, and soon. The 
ends of certain tithis, Naksatras and Lagnas, as also the 
beginnings of a few, were also looked upon as inauspicious, 
being termed ‘Gandanta. Combinations’ of tithis and 
Naksatras, week-days and Naksatras, tithis and week days 
etc. were also laid down as auspicious or otherwise. Com- 
binations of more than two were also supposed to give rise 
to certain exceptional Yogas like Mahodaya, Ardhodaya, 
Gajacchaya and the like. A detailed study of these 
combinations resulted into the systematic formation of a 
new branch of Astrology, named the Muhurta Sdastra in 
later days, which also gave impetus to the Dharmasastra. 


and season: Was hecessar 


Astrological Yogas. 


34. Justas certain combinations of time units like 
the months, the naksatras and the tithis were looked upon 
as productive of good or bad results, similarly, combinations 
of two or more planets with respect to or irrespective of the 
place of their combination in the Heavens viz. the different . 
Rasis, were also taken to produce good or bad _ results accord- 
ing to the nature of the planets and the Ragis or Lagnas. 
These combinations are given under the names ‘dvigraha-. 
yoga,’ ‘ trigrahayoga ’ ete. and treated. at length in treatises 
of that period. These yogas were also considered along 





Introduction 31 


with the Ragis in which they occurred, and, by virtue of the 
particular results’ they produced, they vee ee Vanes 
names like ‘rajayoga,’ ‘ sarnpattiyoga, daridryayoga ’ and 
soon. The combinations of time factors, referred to above, 
were considered mainly for religious purposes, and they 
formed the subject matter of Dharma Sastra, while the 
combinations of planets were considered for explaining 
various natural phenomena and incidents of human life and, 
being utilised for purposes of prognostication, they forimed 
the subject matter of Astrology or Jyotisa-sastra. 


* Jaimini Sutra—a representative book of the period. 


35. The Upadega Sutra of Jaimini can be ‘said with 
sufficient justification, to be a representative book on Astro- 
logy pertaining to this Siddhanta period. Just as Yajjia- 

' valkya, who presumably belonged to the time of Varaha- 
mibira has made a mention of several Smrti writers before 
him, similarly, in Astrology the great writer Varahamihira 
has mentioned several predecessors of him in Astrology 
such as Garga, Vrddha Garga, Parasara and others. Un- 
fortunately, the works of very few of them have been avail- 
able to us, and, those too,ina fragmentary form. Some 
spurious verses arecurrent at present under the name Vrddha- 
karikas, or Vrddha-vakyas, which bear much similarity to 
Sutras of Jaimini, and it may be said that Jaimini’s Upa- 
desa Sutras are the basis of these Karikis of ancient writers, 
There is no doubt that Jaiminiand the old writers of his 
time made a very substantial contribution to. the develop: 
ment of Astrological thought, developing the theory of 
Lagna and assigning different kinds of characteristics and 
influences to the Ragis or signs of the Zodiac. They also 
assigned different characteristics to the different planets in- 
clading Rabu and Ketu, and assigned to them the properties 





32 Upadesa Sutra 
of determining life, governing the career and contributing 
to the happiness and misery of human beings. 


Astrology in India and Greece. 


36. The question of the mutual influence and indebt- 
edness of the Indian and the Greek systems of Astrology 
has been a debated one among scholars of to-day. Tt is be- 
lieved by some modern critical scholars that the Science of 
Astrology originated in Greece and developed there, and it 
was imported into India at the time of Varahamihira. The 
theory apparently seems acceptable in consideration of the 
critical and careful observations made by Hipparcus, 
Ptolemy and others, and a deep study of the Greek writers 
made by the modern European and American Astrologers 
and the vast literature produced by them on that subject. 
The theory, however, falis to the-ground, as a careful and 
critical survey of the whole ancient Vedic and non-Vedig 
literature of the Aryans in India bears sufficient testimony 
to the fact, that several centuries before the contact of the 
Indians and the Greeks was established, astrological pro- 
blems had been minutely studied in India and the results of 
the observations of the Indian Seers had been recorded in the 
religious and secular books in Sanskrit and Prakrit. Mrs. 
Leo in her essays ‘‘ Rays of Truth’ observes— the oldest 
religion of which we have any cognisance is the Hindu 
Religion, and this appears to have been the cradle and the 
nursery of Astrology and that the caste system of Ancient 
India seems to have been arranged upon a basis which finds 
support and justification in astrological teachings,” 


Development of Indian Astrology in foreign countries 


37. In the light of observations made above, it can be 
safely concluded that Indian Astrology must have been 


taken to Greece in the days of Alexander the Great, when 


33 


e in close contact with each other. Tt 
and critically, especi- 
domination in Greece- 
developed the relevant 


Introduction 


the two countries cam 
was studied in Greece very minutely 
ally as the Vedic ae ce 
The Greeks carefully studied anc c : 
facts and theories which were purely astrological, setting 
aside such as were closely associated with Vedic es 
as, for example, the significance of the Naksatras an t ai 
deities. The Indian Astrology was; in fact, hellenized an 
_presented in a systematic form and manner by Ptolemy, 
Placidus and other successors of them. The Arabs nourish- 
ed the Greek astrological thoughts after -the fall of the 
Greeks and later on, Lilly, Ramsay, Morrison, Zadkiely Leo 
and others developed them ,in Europe. All these astrolo- 
gers did not make any radical changes in the basic ideas of 
the Science ; they added, of course, considerable material to 
it, as a result of their detailed and critical study and re- 
search. Itis, in fact, the critically developed and syste- 
matically presented Greek Astrology that is current at pre- 
sent in Europe and America. 


Renaissance cf Indian Astrelogy in India. 


38. In India, however, when the hellenized Vedic 
Astrology was brought back in the course of a few centuries 
and presented ‘in the form of Yavanajataka and other treati- 
ses, the Indian scholars not only replenished it with the old 
Indian Astrological ideas of which it was deprived by the 
Greeks, but bfilliant writers like Varahamihira and Kalyana: 
varma thoroughly indianized it, and presented it beautifully 
in their. laconic yet forcible, and artistic yet graceful style, 
peculiar to the old gifted Sanskrit writers. To explain 
briefly : the topics of Adhana, Ayurdaya, Dasa, Niryana, 
Rajayoga, the influence of Rahu and Ketu, and many sins: 


logous ones, which were set aside by the Greek writers 
F 3 
a 


34 Upadesa Sutra 


found again their proper place in the works of Varahamihira 
and his successors. The topic of ‘Cara’ or movements of 
planets which was developed toa considerable extent in India 
a few centuries before the Christian Era in the Siddhanta 
Period, and which was considered fully in its astrological 
aspects by the Greek Astrologers, was given an adequate 
place in the works of Varahamihira, Kalyanavarma and 
their successors. Similarly, the characteristics and influ- 
ences of the twelve Signs or Rasis and the seven planets 
which were treated fully in Greek Astrology were also in- 
cluded in their works by Indian Astrologers. The Indian 
writers included some new topics such as ‘sadvarga,’ 
‘Ragmi,’ ‘ Astakavarga,’ ‘ Viyonijanma,’ ‘ Strijataka,’ 
* Nastajataka,’ Arista,’ ‘ Anistasticana ’’ and the like, 


JAIMINE'S UPADESA SUTRA—-DATE and CRITICAL 
: APPARATUS 


General nature of the Upadeda Sutra, 


39. The Upadesa Sutra of Jaimini presents in a nut- 
shell the development of astrological thought a few centuries 
before the Christian Era. Written in the well-known 
laconic Sutra style, the treatise does not contain any elabo- 
rate descriptions of topics, nor, ‘their detailed divisions and 
subdivisions, nor chains of arguments and counter argu- 
‘ments. It presumes the reader or the student to have pos- 
sessed workable and sufficient knowledge of the common 
astrological facts, and offers conclusive observations in the 
‘form of aphorisms on the cardinal popular topics of Astro- 
légy such as dispositions of planets, aspects; owned houses, 
ascendance, zodiacal subdivisions, span of life, time and 
kind of death, events in life, and so on. The astrologers 
before Jaimini, following the suggestions of the Atharva 


Jyotisa, entered into a detailed scrutiny of the colour 
i ? 


Introduction ’ 35 


nature, sex, aspect, governing 


power and the mutual relations of the different planets. 
The results of these observations are described in detail and 
civen in later books of Minaraja, Varaha- 


systematically g araha- 
mihira, Kalyanavarma and others. It is clear from Jaimini’s 
h the views of astrologers 


Sutras, that he was conversant wit 

on several of these items, and, accordingly in his treatise, he 
has given the specific influence of each planet on the several 
events and circumstances in the life of human beings. 


strength, exaltation, domain, 


, General Contents. 


40. The Upadesa Sutra of Jaimini consists of four 
Adbyayas (books) with four subdivisions (padas) of each 
Adhyaya, just like the Vedanta Sutras of Badarayana. Each 
Adhyaya consists of about 200 short aphorisms. The first 
Adhyaya discusses the general career of man including his 
character, profession, monetary condition, health, domestic 
happiness and incidental happenings. The second Adhyaya 
is devoted to the various ways of ascertaining the span of 
life—short, middling or long— the time of death during 
that span, and the kind of death. The third and the fourth 
Adhyayas appear like supplementary Adhyayas, ceiving details 
of the topics discussed in the first two Adhyayas. The first two 
Adhyayas are edited by various scholars with a brief commen- 
tary in Sanskrit or Hindi or English translations. Although 
Manuscript material has been available which istolerably satis- 
factory, no critical edition, so far, has been attempted by any- 
body, noticing the different readings, fixing the text at 
doubtful places, offering a critical introduction, and defining 
the place of Jatmini among writers on Indian Astrology. 


Manuscript material for text and commentaries. 


41, Out of the 15 Manuscripts available (nine in 
“the Government Collection at the Bhandarkar Institute 
] 5 


\ i“ 
36 Upadesa Sutra 


‘Poona, and six in the Government Library at us eect 
in Nepal) only one manuscript has given the text of a 

the four Adhyayas with commentary upto the end of the 
third quarter of the third Adhyaya oniy, as In others. Two 
Manuscripts have given the bare text of all the four 
Adhyayas. Apparently, i. e. as far as lists of Manuscripts 
and descriptions are concerned, there are two commentaries 
available—one by Nilakantha and another by Krsnananda 
Sarasvati—and one Bhasya. But a critical study of the 
several manuscripts discloses the fact, that, there igs one 
commentary, written by Krsnananda Sarasvati, who is named 
Balkrsnananda also, and another by Nilakantha. There are 
five introductory stanzas found in some manuscripts, out of 
which the last stanza has its last line as - follows :— 
“surged Regt wae eater”. This line clearly 
refers to Krsnananda Sarasvati as the writer of the com- ~ 
mentary. Some manuscripts, which give the commentary 

of Krsnananda Sarasvati without the introductory stanzas, 

mention the name of Nilakantha by mistake, possibly 

because Nilakantha was a learned Astrologer who wrote 

many original and commentary works. The copy which 

is said to be with the Bhasya has got the text of the Bhasya 

exactly coinciding with the text of the commentary by 
Krsnananda Sarasvati. Only one Manuscript in Nepal 
gives the genuine comméntary of Nilakantha up to the 
end of two Adhyayas only. There is one very old 

cyclostyled edition of Jaimini Sutra with the commentary 
by Nilakantha as mentioned by the editor. The text is 

full of mistakes and inaccuracies. The commentary men- 

tioned as Nilakantha’s commentary is the same as that by . 
Krsnananda-Sarasvati. It is, however, very curious that 
the text of the last five quarters in this cyclostyled book 
differs radically from the text of all the manuscript copies, 
The sutras, given in the last five quarters therein, not only 





Introduction 37 
bear little connection with the text of the foregoing yaa 
yas, but some of them appear to be copied down and base 


upon standard siitras and maxims of other Shastras, 


explained by the commentator to bear quite a different 
sense in Astrology. Evidently, the Sutras of the last five 
quarters given in this Benares edition are quite spurious, 
( For details, see Prefatory note. ) 


Date of Jaimini—external evidence, 


42, The question of the date of Jaimini is a very 
knotty one to discuss and decide. There is no satisfactory 
* evidence, either external or internal, to fix up his time even 
approximately. The name Jaimini appears asa Gotra name 
referring to an author belonging to the Jaimini family, or, 
it may refer at the most to a school of astrological thought 
founded by Jaimini and hence named after him. There is 
no ground to say that this Astrologer Jaimini was the same 
as the writer of the Purva Mimarmsa Sutras. The develop- 
ment of astrological thought, the style and the vocabulary 
are the only means for arriving at some conclusions in the 
matter. The external evidence regarding his date is in no 
way helpful for drawing any satisfactory conclusion, as the 
astrologer Jaimini is not directly found mentioned or 
quoted by any standard work on Jyotisa. The Karikas 
known as Vrddha Karikas, to which the Sutras of Jaimini 


are parallel, are quoted by Bhatta Utpala and th ; 
of the Brhat Paragari. : © writer 


Internal evidence, 


43, The internal evidence can be of some help in 
arriving at some conclusion regarding his date. Jaimini 
does not mention the signs of the Zodiac or Ragis by name 
The mention of the words Mesa, Simha and Kanya dannat 
definitely be said to refer to the signs Aries, Leo and Fives 

a 





38 Upadesa Sutra 


respectively. They may refer to the oe . po re 
the eleventh signs as well on the strength 9 i. ea i himself 
numerical Alphabetical interpretation wane wae os 
has prescribed for interpreting his ‘Sutras ( ' 09 ), 
It appears that the word ‘capa’, wittolt 4 a wie 
than once, may refer to the ‘Dhanus Rasi as t “ erm 
‘capa’, or ‘dhanus’ was in use at the time of Baud Bayan 
who has mentioned only four Rasis-Kanya, Dhanus, Ani- 
misa (Mina) and Mithuna. Jaimini definitely knows the 
twelve divisions of the Zodiac, which he refers to by the 
words ‘paiica’, ‘tatra’, ‘mrtyau’ etc, which refer respecti- 
vely to the first, second, third etc. on the strength of thee 
method of the Alphabetical interpretation prescribed by him. 
The characteristics of the signs, given in Sutras (Lii‘2 to 
141.13) show beyond doubt that his ‘first’ (pafica) refers to 
Aries; his second (tatra) refers to ‘Taurus (Yrsabha); his third 
(mrtyau) to Gemini (Mithuna) and so on. Tt can hence be 
concluded that Jaimini belonged to a period when the 
Zodiac was divided into twelve equal parts by astronomers 
although their names Mesa, Vrsabha, Mithuna or Aries, 
Taurus, Gemini etc. were not very current. 


Special importance of two words. 


44, The word ‘aparadaurbalyam’ is used by Jaimini 
in the Sutra “‘syat svaminah kantakadisu aparadaurbalyam” 
(11.83.16). The word “paradaurbalyam’’ is used by Jai- 
mini, the author of the Purva-Mimarns4 Sutras in the Sutra 
“sruti-liiga-vakya-prakarana-sth@na-samakbyanam samavaye 
paradaurbalyam arthaviprakarsat” (2.2.14). . The word 
‘paradaurbalyam’, in the Purvamimarisa-siitra means ‘suc- 

\cessive weakness’ or ‘comparative weakness’ of each term in 
succession, the second (liiga) being weaker than the first 
(Sruti), the third, (vakya) being weaker than the second 
(linga) and so on, The term ‘a-paradaurbalya’ in the 


Introduction 39 
Jaimini Sutra (113.15) quoted above, should mae | 
vexactly the opposite sense ‘successive strength Tees 
succeeding term being stronger and stronger. lhe cog 
is quite suitable and appears intended by the Sutrakara 
although the commentators and translators have not given 
it. There is the old word ‘kikata’ used by Jaimini - 
the Sutra “ papailh kikate’’ (11.2.26). The word ‘likata 
is found in the Rgveda hymn “kim te krnvanti kikatesu 
gavo etc.” (Reveda 111.53.14). The word is explained 
by Yaska as a province inhabited by barbarians. The same 
e sense is intended by Jaimini in his Sutra “papaih kikate”’. 
It is worth noticing that the word is not found used in the 
Classical Sanskrit literature anywhere, and, hence, it may be 
concluded that Jaimini lived before the period of Classical 
Sanskrit Literature, probably at the time of Yaska or 
immediately after him. Subsequent writers have not used 
the word ‘kikata’; there are found, in stead, words such as 
‘“Magadha’, ‘kaliiga’, mleccha dega’, ‘anarya dega’ and so 
on. On the grounds mentioned above, it can be safely said 
that the internal evidence furnished by the style and 
method of Jaimivi, the development of astrological notions 
of the Atharva JTyotisa in his works, the old gloss 
(Vrddha Karikas) on the Jaimini Sutra quoted by Utpala 
and others and the use of the words ‘aparadaurbalya’ and 
‘kikata’ may well go to prove that the Astrologer Jaimini 
belonged to the period of Yaska and the Mimarsaka 
Jaimini, a few centuries before the Christian Era. 


JAIMINI'S UPADESA SUTRA—CRITICAL ANALYSIS. 
List of Topics, 


45. As observed already, the Sutra of Jaimini cannot 
be said to be an ‘exhaustive treatise on the subject of Astro- 
“logy. daimini has discussed only a few out of the several 


40 Upadeia Stitra 


_topics that are found in the current Eastern and Western 
treatises on the subject. The most important topics discuss- 
ed by him are (1) drsti (aspect), (2), grahasvabhava (dis- 
positions of planets), (3) rasiphala (different kinds of fruit 
given by the signs), (4) Ayurdaya (duration of life), 
(5) nidhanayoga (Time of death), (6) Daas (periods of 
life) and (7) yogas (special incidents). 

Aspect or drsti. 

46. Regarding aspects, Jaimini’s line of consideration 
is radically different from that followed by Varahamihira 
and others. He does not give various kinds of aspects such 
as full, half or quarter ; so also, he does not give special 
modes of aspects pertaining to different planets. A planet, 
as also a Rasi, according to him casts aspects towards 
another planet or sign, that is situated exactly at its side or 
that is exactly opposed. The opposite sign is not neces- 
sarily the seventh; ‘nor the signs at the sides are necessarily 
the fourth and the tenth. In determining the opposite sign 
and the signs to the two sides, Jaimini pays special consi- 
deration to the angle of 23 degrees between the Ecliptic and 
the Equator, and follows the same line of thought as was 
adopted by astronomers of his time in fixing the periods of 
Mahapata, viz. the consideration of the angular: distance 
of the Sun and the Moon from the Celestial Equator to its 
north or to its south. When the Sun and the Moon had 
the same celestial latitdude on the same side of the Celestial 
Equator, the Mahapata was called ‘Vyatipata’, while it was 
called ‘Vaidhrti’ when the two planets were on Opposite 
sides of the Equator at ‘equal angular distance from it 
Possibly, there was the belief that the Sun and the Moon 
were in full concurrence when they had the same celestial 
latitude, and, as a result, the Sun, being strengthened by 
the Moon, was able to give definite fruit for actions and 


Introduction 41 


observances on Mahapata days. Applying the -same const 
deration, it was further believed that other planets—even 
Ragis—were also in concurrence, when they werg in 0 line 
parallel or perpendicular to the Celestial Equator, or in 
other words, when they had the same Celestial Latitude or 
Declination. This occurred when the distances of the two 
planets or the two Ragis on the ecliptic arc from the equi- 
noctial point (or the First Point of Aries) totalled 180 and 
360 degrees, 


The underlying idea in aspects. 


47. The twelve Rasis or the ¢welfths, into which the 
Ecliptic Circle was divided, had the first Rasi or the first 
twelfth ending with 30 degrees, the second with 60°, the 
third with 90° and so on from the point of the vernal 
equinox. Tf the aspects of Rasi No. 1 were considered in 
this light, the total of the degrees of Rasi No. 1 and Ragi 
No. 3 (30°+150°) amounted to 180°; the total of 1 
aud 8 (30°+240°) amounted to 270° and the total of 
No. 1 and 11 (30°+330°) amounted to 360°. Hence, 
verily, itis stated by Jaimini that Ragi No. 1 aspected 
Rasis numbered 5, 8, and 11: So also Rasi No. 4 aspected 
8, 11 and 2; Ragi No. 7 aspected 11, 2 and 5; and Ragi No. 
10 aspected 2, 5 and 8. In short, each of the Ragis num- 
bered 1,4,7,10, which were the first in the four Rasi-triads 
and named ‘cara-raéis’, aspected the 5th, the 8th and the 
11th Rasis from it. Similarly, each of the Ragis numbered 
2, 5, 8, 11 which were called ‘sthira-rasis,’ aspected the 
4th, the 7th and the 10th from it; while each of the ragis, 
numbered 3, 6, 9 and 12 and known as ‘dvisvabhava’ rasis, 
aspected each other. In short, the ‘cara’ rasi, according 
to Jaimini aspects the ‘sthira’ ragis in the other triads, the 
‘sthira’ rasi aspects the ‘cara’ ragis in the other triads, while 
the ‘dvisvabhava’ rasi aspects always the ‘dyisvabhava’ 

6 


42 . Upadesa Sutra, 


-ragis. (cf. “ carasthar sthiragah pasyet sthirastharh 
gararasigah ; ubhayastharh tiibhayagab nikatasthar vina 


? et 
graham ”” ), 


The three aspects according to Jaimini. 


48, Thus, it can be seen that the aspects given by 
Jaimini differ from those given by Varahamibira and 
others in the case of cara and sthira rasis, while they are 
practically the same in the case of dvisvabhdva rasis. 
Probably, Jaimini was rather keen on the direction in 
which the aspected planet stood, as also on the angular 
equality of the distance of the aspected and the aspecting 
planet from the equinox or the solstice. A planet or a 
rasi, according to him for its aspect on one side, aspected 
sidewards that planet or raéi which stood exactly to 
its east or west as the case was, and which had the 
same distance from the solstice as the aspecting planet 
or rasi. For the aspect to the other side, it aspected 
that planet or rasi, which lay exactly to its north or south, 
as the case was, and which had the same distance as it had 
from the equinox. The front aspect or ‘abhimukha 
drsti’ was in the direction which was exactly mid-way 
between the two directions of the two side aspects or ‘parsva 
drstis.’ This was the case with the cara and sthira rasis. In 
the case of dvisvabhava rasis, the only .difference was that 
the aspects towards the sides were in sub-directions, while 

- the front aspect was in the main direction: Rasi No. 3 
having the front:aspect exactly to the south, Rasi No. 6 to 
the west, Ragi No. 9 to the north, and Ragi No. 12 to the 
east. The dvisvabhdva rasis aspected each other when the 
total of their angular distances from the equinox 
was 270°, 360° or 450°; “while tle cara or sthiru rasis 
agpected each other when the total, as observed above, 


Introduction 43 


was 180°, 270° or 360°, Jaimini does not oe pa 
aspects at 120° and 240° degrees. Possibly, a iockea: 
aspects were laid down by later astrologers, w ee ie 
upon planets, situated in such signs as formed: an equila ak, 
triangle, as aspecting each other in a specially ses 
ent way. Jaimini’s mention of Argala or grouping 
planets situated at these degrees (120° and 240 ) from eae 
other was possibly the basis of the ‘ trine aspect or ‘trikona 
drsti’ given by Varaha Mihira and other writers later on. 
The striking identity of principles underlying the Mahapatas 
defined by the Siddhanta writers, and the aspects defined 
by Jaimini, may well nigh substantiate the view given above 
that Jaimini flourished in the Siddhanta period of Indian 
Astrology some centuries before Varahamihira. 


Argala or pact of planets. 


49. Jaimini mentions peculiar combinations made by 
planets or signs placed at specific distances from the planet . 
or the sign in question. He names these combinations as 
‘argala’ (fem.) or ‘ argala’ (neu.). Old writers have men- 
tioned two varieties of ‘argala’ viz. ‘gubhareala’ and 
‘Papargala’. It is not clear whether argala ’ 
helping combination or an obstructiy 
other words, it is difficult to sa 
planets formed by a planet with other planets, occupying 
the 2nd, the 4th and the 11th places from it, if not Opposed 
by a larger number of planets in the 12th, 10th and 3rd 
places respectively, so also a group formed by a planet with 
others in the 5th and 9th places from it, help the particular 
planet or obstruct him in the obtainment of results given 

by it. Although the general mesning of the word ‘ argala’ 
is obstruction, still, the word ‘ virodhinah’ in the Sutra 
“rispha-nica-kama-stha virodhinah” (I. 1.7) as also the 
word viparitargala in the Vrddha-karikas make it almost 


means a 
€ combination. In 


y whether the group of 


44 Upadesa Sutra 


in. the Sutras of Jaimini 


obvious that the term ‘argala’ y 
The mention of 


means ‘a helping combination’ or a ‘pact. ; mn 
the 5th and 9th places by the word ‘trikona’ in the Sutra 
“ pragvat trikone ” (I 1. 9), as also the general belief about 
the planets in the trine being favourable, shows that the old 
astrologers at the time of Jaimini believed that when a 
" particular planet according to his nature, strength and place 
occupied by him is giving a good or bad fruit, the planets, 
that are stationed at the 2nd, 4th, Sth, 9th and 11th places 
from him, are helpful to him in the award of the fruit, 
while the planets in the third place, if they are malefic, ob- 
struct him. No rational explanation can be given why the 
third place is looked upon as inimical, as also why the 6th 
and other places are considered indifferently. Possibly, the 
current belief in those days, that: the 3rd and the 6th Naksa- 
tras in each group of Naksatras were malefic, could have 
been at the root of this conception. It is also -possible 
. that because the 4th place is looked upon as a place deter- 
mining a man’s happiness, and because Argala or pact of 
planets is specially taken into account for determining 
a man’s weal and woe, the third place is looked upon as 
totally unfavorable as it is the twelfth from the fourth. 
The ascendant (Lagna) and the seventh (saptama) accord- 
ing to Jaimini are of the same importance ; hence it may be 
that the 6th and the 12th were not considered useful for 
purposes of pact, being the 12th from the seventh and the 
Lagna respectively. 


Twelve divisions of the Zodiac. 


50. The Zodiac, as observed above, is divided into 12 
équal parts by Jaimini. They are not mentioned by him by 
their names such as ‘ Mesa,’ ‘Vrsabha’ (Aries, Taurus etc.) as 
by other astronomers later on, but. by words such as ‘pajica,’ 
‘ bhagya ’, ‘karma’ ete. signifying the first, second, third eto, 





45 
Introduction 
ons of the twelfths, such as 
d the like, are not utilized by 
that they were known 
“horadayah 


‘Although further sub-divisi 
‘ navamarga,’ ‘ trimsarnga.” an 
him, there is no objection to believe a 
to him, as they are stated by him in the Sutra ‘hor y 
siddhah” “(1.1.35). Out of the various subdivisions of 
the Rasis, the ‘ navamariisa’ subdivisions appear to be the 
earliest; in fact, it can be even remarked that the navamamsa 
subiivisions were in use before the rasis were introduced. 
The ‘navamatnga’ or the ninth part of the Rasi_ corres- 
ponds to the ‘carana’, or the quarter part of the 
Naksatra ; and the quarter divisions of the Naksatras were in 
vogue long before the introduction of Rasis, The conceytion 
of Rasi, in fact, appears to be based on the Naksatra- 
caranas. The Rasi was made of nine caranas and hence 
significantly called ‘ rasi’ or heap or sum (of nine caranas). 


The Significatory Planet. 


51. The progress of a planet within the sien or Rasi 
has got a specific importance in the system of Jaimini—a 
fact borne out by the way in which aspects are calculated 
by bim, the planet within a Rasi being understood as situat- 
ed at the end of the Rasi for purposes of aspecting other 
planets. The Significatory planet for self ( Atma-Karaka. 
graha ) according to Jaiminiis that planet who has made 
the greatest progress inside a Ragi‘i. e. who has passed 
the greatest number of degrees in a Rasi. The general 
career of a man consisting of his nature, profession, 
strength, residence, wife, friendship, religion ete. is 
determined by the Significatory Planet’s nature, strength 
and other factors. The fortune of the parents and other 
relatives of a person is determined by the planet who stands 
next to the Significatory planet, the order being, of course, 
determined by means of the progress in degrees inside 
the Rasi made by the planet. This planet, next in order 


46 Upadesa Sutra 


to the Significatory Planet for self, is called Minister Planet: 
_ (Amatyakaraka). Next to the Significatory and the Minister 
planets in order, stand the Karakas named Bhratr-karaka, 
Matrkaraka, Pitr-karaka, Putra-karaka, Jnati-kdraka and 
Darakavaka, These Karakas, that are eight in’ nuniber, 
are the seven planets and the Pata Planet as-the eighth 
planet. The Pata Planets are two—Rahu and Ketu; but as 
they possess the same number of degrees in a Rasi, they are 
considered together as one Karaka Graha. Some Astrologers, 
Jaimini remarks, mention seven Karaka “Planets, excluding 
the Pata Planets, and holding that the Matr Karaka functions 
as Putra Karaka also. These Karaka Grahas, arranged in 
order according to the progress in degrees, are termed acci- 
dental Significatory planets or Anitya Karakas, as opposed 
to Nitya Karakas or Permanent. Significatory planets, that 
are mentioned in Sutras (I. 1. 21 to I, 1. 24 )—Mars for 
sister, brother-in-law, younger brother and’ mother ; 
Mercury for maternal relatives ; Jupiter for Grand father, 
husband and son; and Venus for wife, parents, father- 
in-law, mother-in-law ard maternal ' grand-father. 


Characteristics of the Sun, the Moon, Mars and Mercury. 


5%. Jaimini has mentioned all the seven planets—the 
Sun, the Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn 
as also the Shadow planets Rahu and Ketu. Although the 
nature and characteristics of each planet are not individually 
defined in a systematic manner by him, they can be very 
well inferred from his writings. Saturn is looked-upon as 
the weakest planet, and the Sun, the strongest; Mars, Mer- 
cury, Jupiter, Venus and the Moon being placed after Saturn 
in the ascending order. Saturn, Mars, Rahu, Ketu and the 
Sun are considered malefic in general ; in a few cases, how- 
ever, the Sun and Ketu are considered benefic. The Sun ig 
looked upon as a planet possessed of Royal glory for con- 





Introduction 47 


‘Sidering the fate of the father; the Sun is considered as a 
‘Significatory planet for the father (pitr-karaka); and, from 
his position and influence in the horoscope of an individual, 
the fate of the father of the individual is considered. 
When the Sun is the Significatory planet of the 
‘individual himself (atma-karaka ), he makes the 
individual fit for Government service. _ The Sun is look- 
ed upon as a benefic planet for consideration of Dasas or life 
periods., His good influence causes Royal pleasure while his 
bad influence causes royal displeasure. The moon is looked 
upon as a benefic planet. He is looked upon as the Ruling 
’ Planet for considering the fate of the mother of the native. 
As a ruling planet of the native, the Moon makes the native 
a lover of pleasure, maintaining himself by learning and 
Arts. An inclination to theft and proneness to leprosy and 
tuberculosis are also found sometimes in the native, due to 
the Moon’s influence. Mars is generally looked upon asa 
malefic planet. He is the Ruling planet for considering the 
fate of the native’s sister, mother, brother.iu-law and 
younger brother. When a ruling planet of the native, he 
makes the native proficient in factory work and fighting and 
professionally connected with fire, prone to suffer from fire 
burns, wounds and scars. Mercury is looked upon as a 
benevolent planet. He is considered as the ruling planet 
for mother’s relatives. When a ruling planet of the native, 
_-he makes the native proficient in business, trade and fine 
arts. The man governed by him generally remains feeble 
and sometimes suffering from Hernia. 


Characteristics of Jupiter, Venus and Saturn. 


53. Jupiter is looked upon as a highly benefic planet. 
He is the Ruling planet for father’s relatives, for husband 
as also for the son. Whena ruling planet, he makes the 
native very religious, full of modesty, devoted to the pre- 


48 Upadesa Sutra 


ceptor anda scholar of Vedic religion and literature. His 
benefic influence leads also to longevity. Venus is a benefice 
planet looked upon as a Ruling planet for considering the 
fate of the father, wife and maternal grand-father of the 
native. When a ruling planet, he makes the native voluptu- 
ous and much inclined to sensual pleasures. By his favour- 
able influence, a person becomes clever in carrying on negoti- 
ations, and inclined to perform sacrifices etc. Saturn is 
looked upon as a very malefic planet. When a ruling pla- 
net, he makes a man engaged asa labourer in factories or 
working as iron-smith or mechanic. The man under his 
influence remains always a servant of another, and feeble in 
bodily activities. The planets Rahu and Ketu are treated 
alike in all respects. As they move backwards in the 
heavenly vault, they become the rulers when their degrees 
in a Rasi are less than those of others. For purposes of 
Dasas or life-periods, the years in their charge are determin- 
ed by calculating backwards from the sign they occupy to 
the sign which they rule. They are never Nitya-karakas or 
Permanent rulers. The native under their influence has got 
tendencies of theft. The influence of Ketu is sometimes 
very healthy especially when he is in the twelfth place in the 
horoscope of the native. 


Odd and Even Signs 


_ 54, “The division of Rasis or signs into odd and even, 
with admitted superiority of the odd signs, shows that the 
season which was taken as a unit for. dividing the year at 
the time of the Brahmanas and Aranyakas had made room 
for the month.as a unit, The odd signs were looked upon as | 
superior because they were male signs. There is no reason 

‘given why the odd signs are called male signs and the even 
signs are called female signs. Possibly, the 27 Naksatras were 
distributed among the six seasons thus: five Naksatras for 





Introduction. 49 


three seasons, and four Naksatras for the other three seasons; 

ASvini to Rohini for Vasanta, Mrga to Aglesa for Grisma,” 
Maghaprakara to Citra for Varsi, Svati to Tyestha for Sarad, 

Mulabarhani to Sravistha for Hemanta, and lastly, Satabhisaj 
to Revati for Sisiva Season. When each of the six seasons 
was divided into two months, the first month, and consequ- 
ently the sign of the Sun in that month, were believed to be 
male as they commenced with the male Naksatras—Asvinau, 
Mrga ete:, while the second month, and consequently, the 
sign of the second month were looked upon as female as 
they ended with female Naksatras—Rohini, Aélesa, Citra, 
Jyestha, Sravistha’and Revati. It is not definite whether 
Jaimini takes the Ist, 3rd, 5th etc, as odd signs, and the rest 
aS even, or, he takes the first and third Triads out of the four 
Rasi Triads as odd, and the others as even, when he lays 
down that calculation of the years of dasas should be made 
ahead from the odd signs and backwards from the even 
signs. The view of the commentators appears to be divided 
in this respect. There is no doubt that he looks upon the even 
signs as complementary to odd signs. This view is based upon 
the old conception given in the Maitri Upanisad of dividing 
the zodiac into two halves, one half from Magha ahead to the 
middle of Sravistha, and the other half from Aslesa_ back- 
wards to half the Sravistha. The first half was in charge of 
the Sun, while the second was in charge of the Moon ; 
the planets in the zones of the Sun and the Moon looked at 
their lords ahead and backwards respectively, the counting 

being done ahead or backwards in the: way in which’ they 

looked. On this analogy, each of the odd ‘signs, called also 

male or positive, looked ahead towards the even sign ‘which’ 
was also called the female or the negative sign while; 

each of the negative signs looked backwards to’ the 

male sign. ees yn 

q 


and 





50 Upaidesa Sura 


_ JAIMINT'S UPADESA SUTRA—HOROSCOPE READING 


Origin of Kundali or horoscope. 


As already observed above, the rudiments of 

Kunndat or horoscope are traced to the Vedanga Jyotisa 
Period when the nine Naksatras of each of the three Nak- 

satra Groups were assigned individual characteristics such 
‘as (determination of) birth, fortune, misery etc. People 
‘believed that certain actions performed on certain days suc 
ceeded more than on other days, and they could not attribute 
the success to any other thing than the day-to-day changing 
position of the Moon among the Naksatras, all the other 
factors remaining the same. On the analogy of the Moon, 
the Sun and the other planets were also believed to be 
giving results according. to the nature of the Naksatra in 
which they were stationed for the time. The Moon, how- 
ever, being the nearest planet to the earth, and looked upon 
as the lord of the Naksatras, was the most efficient in 
bringing about the results of. the various human activities 
and undertakings, the results being strictly in conformity 
with the benefic or malefic nature of the Naksatras. 


Naksatra Kundali. 


56. The difference in results, obtained by different 
individuals from activities undertaken on the same day, was 
accounted for by the different positions which the Moon 
occupied among the lunar. mansions’ or Naksatras at the 
time of birth of the different individuals. The Naksatra 
on the day of birth was, in short, made a guiding factor in 
' the verification and forecast of results; and taking that Nak- 
satra as the first Naksatra (Janma.Naksatra ) the subse- 
quent, -Naksatras, 4m order were taken as significant of 
Sarhpat (fortune), Vipad (misfortune) etc. and ‘ihe planets 


Iniroduction. Y bt 
stationed in those Naksatras were believed a ee 
fruits of those Naksatras according to their own strength, 
nature and co-ordination with other planets. This method 
of consideration was popularly called Janma-Nakeat ree 
Kundali-Vijiana. A desire to obtain a further ges 
specification of this Janma Nakstra-Kundali resulted in the 
consideration of the Nakstra which was actually touching 
(Lagna) the horizon at the time of birth. This method of 
consideration by means of the Naksatra touching the hori- 
zon was popularly called Janma-Lagna-Naksatra-K undali- 
vijhana, 

Rasi Lagna and Navathéa Kundalis. 

97. When the Naksatras, in course of time, made 
room for signs or Rasis, that Rasi, in which the moon was 
stationed at the moment of birth, was taken as the first 
Rasi, and putting serially the other Rasis after it, the pla- 
nets stationed in the various Rasis Were put in their proper 
places. This arrangement was called ‘Rasi-Kundali’. For 
detailed consideration with greater accuracy, that Rag 
or sign, which was touching the horizon (lagna) at the 
moment of birth was considered as the first Rasi, and 
arranging serially the following Ragis and'the planets there. 
in, a horoscope was prepared which was popularly called. the 
Janma-Lagna-Kundali, which is much in vogue, at present. 
For the sake of greater exactness, instead of the sign at the 
horizon, its’ ninth part, equivalent. to a Quarter-Naksatra, 
stationed at the horizon at the moment of birth, was consi: 
dered as the first, and, in a series there were arranged in. 
cycles of twelve, the succeeding one-ninths of all the signs. 
ot the remaining 107 quarter-Naksatras, The _ planets’ 
were shown at; their proper places in the Navarhgas or quar-. 
ter Naksatras they occupied. This arrangement of planets 


according to the Naksatra caranas or Rasi-Navarhsis, was 


59 Upadesa Sutra 


_ popularly called the ‘Navarnga-Kundali, which, according 
to some- commentators of Jaimini is referred to in the Sutra 
‘atha svathgo grahanam’(I.2.1.) 


Adjustment of the three Naksatra divisions to the twelve rasis. 


58. Regarding the distribution of the nine places of 
Naksatva-Kundali, ‘janma’ ‘Saripat,’ etc. among the twelve 
houses of the Rasi-Kundali, some interesting features might 
be noted: the first house in the Rasi-Kundali is named ‘tanu- 
sthana’ which is practically the same as ‘janma’; the second 
house named ‘dhana-sthana’ is the same as ‘ sallipad ’;°-the 
third is named ‘sahaja’ which is analogous to ‘vipad’ especi- 
ally as fratricidal troubles were very common in Ancient 
India and the term ‘sahaja’ connoted an element of bad rela- 
tions ; the fourth house ‘suhrd’ and the fifth ‘suta’ together 
stand for the fourth Naksatra signifying ‘ksema’ (mental 
and bodily happiness) which is well associated with happy 
relations with the mother and the son. Indirectly this 
splitting up of the fourth Nakgatra into the fourth and the 
fifth houses is borne out by theSttra of Jaimini “matra sala 
putram eke samamananti” (1.1.20). It is possible that when 
the nine places of Naksatras were re-arranged into twelve 
houses, three Naksatras, the fourth, the. eighth and the 
ninth, made room for six houses—the fourth and. the fifth, 
the ninth and the tenth, and, the eleventh and the twelfth— 
respectively. The sixth house called ‘ripu’ is the same 
as. ‘pratyari’, the word ‘pratyari’ being taken in a 
bad sense and interpreted as ‘a fighting enemy’. The 
seventh house called Jaya is analogous to Sadhaka’ 
(‘Success in life’). The eighth house called.‘ mrtyu’ is 
the same as ‘vadha’, The ninth and the tenth houses, 
taken as a pair and called dharma and karma, are analoy- 
ous to the eighth Naksatra ‘Maitra’, as dharma and karma 


‘ 


Introduetion 53 
ate, in a way, the real friends ofa man accompanying him 
after Death. The eleventh and the twelfth, also taken as a 
pair, and named ‘aya’ and ‘yvyaya’ are based upon the 
ninth Naksatra ‘parama-maitra’, as the account of ‘aya’ 
(spiritual income) and ‘vyaya’ (spiritual expense) in this 
life determines the man’s Life Beyond (Parama-maitra ). 
Just as the seed contains all the principal elements of the 
tree, or just as the microcosm is believed to be an epitome , 
of the macrocosm, the ancient astrologers believed that the 
features of the full horoscope of the 12 signs with the pla- 
nets stationed at their various places: therein, were also 
borne by miniature horoscopes with the twelve houses made 
up of small divisions of the signs such as 1/9th, 1/12th, 
1/3 0th ete. called aaaia, grata, Fata etc. 

Reading of Karaka—Kundali. 

59. The position of the Significatory Planet for self 
(Atma-karaka) in a sign and his relationship with other 
planets as determined by the positions of those planets in. 
their respective signs are the determining factors, according 
to Jaimini, for the life events, nature and prospects of the 
individual. In the words of astrologers it is the Karakatiisa 
Kundali that is primarily considered for ascertaining the 
general career of the ‘individual. It is not made clear 
by Jaimini whether by the word ‘syarnga’ in the Sutra 
“atha svarigo grahanam” (1.2.1.) the sign (ariga) of the 
Karaka of self (sva) is meant, or the word ‘atisa’ means a 

division of the sign or Rasi. The meaning ‘sign of the 
Significatory Planet for self? appears to be quite suitable 
The Karakainga-kundali is, in short, tobe examined as 
follows:—The general profession, occupation and habits of 
a man are determined by planets in the first house, the Signi- 

ficatory Planet for self being necessarily present there. A 

man’s passions and emotions are determined by planets in 





gh CO pak. Sita 


-. the second house. Personal bravery, especially referring to 
the element of rashness, is determined by planets in the 
third house. The residence of a man, and his weal and woe, 
are determined by planets in the fourth house. The general 
bearing of ‘a-man, as also, the secret powers of his mind 
influencing other persons, are determined by planets in the 
fth house. Monetary difficulties and poverty are deter: 
mined by planets in the sixth house. Domestic happiness 
“and the nature of wife are determined by planets in the 
seventh house. Span of life, time of death, its cause and 
nature are determined by planets in the eighth house. 
Religious tendencies, devotion to god and preceptor and good 
emotions in general are determined by planets in the ninth 
house. Mental characteristics such as steadiness, fick] ness 
and the like are determined by planets in the tenth house. 
Devotion to deities and prospects of the next world are 
determined by planets in the twelfth house. No results are 
specified with regard to the 11th house presumably because 
it is the complement of the third house, which gives. results 
favourably by the presence of the malefic planets only. It 
is obvious that Jaimini in the statement of the results is 
guided by the general notions of his predecessors that the 
relations and aspects of a house were generally cordial with 
the second, the fourth, the fifth, the ninth and the eleventh 
houses, while they were otherwise with the third, the sixth 
and the eighth houses, and that benefic planets in the 
former brightened a man’s prospects. : 
Reading of Pada—Kundali. 

60. As observed already, Jaimini has paid a special 
attention to the aspects of planets—especially to the way in 
which they aspect their own sign. Apparently, there was 
a peculiar ~ belief that the reflection. was 2s good as 
the original, the reilecting medium being furnished by a 





Introduction 55 


planet as in the case of the Pada or the Upapada, oF 
by a ‘sign, as in the case of’ ' Bahya Ragi ”. The - 
old astrologers at the, time of Jaimini believed that 
along with the sign he ruled, a planet aspected, with the 
same attention, another sign which had the same angle of 
incidence as the sign ruled by him had with the sign in 
which he was placed. In other words, a sign had its reflec- 
tion in its ruler planet, and the sign corresponding to the 
reflection was as powerful as the original one. The sion, 
agreeing with or corresponding to the reflection, was called 
‘pada’ or foot’by Jaimini and his colleague astrologers. 
The Pada of the Ascendant or Lagnapada is taken by Jai- 
mini as the basis in determining the monetary prospects of 
an individual. The seventh, the eleventh and the twelfth 
houses from the Pada give special results by means of pla- 
nets present therein. The remaining houses give results just 
in the way in which houses from the sign occupied by the 
Significatory Planet do. (vide 1.3-17). If the 7th house from 
the Pada be occupied by benefic planets, the man becomes 
rich, if by malefic planets, he suffers from diseases. A man 
also becomes rich, if the Pada of the 7th be in trine 
or square of the Lagnapada. Planets occupying ‘or aspect- 
ing the 11th and the 12th houses from the Pada of the As- 
cendant, determine the income and expenses of a man: the 
sources of income, and the ways of expenses are bad and 
objectionable in case the planets are malefic ; they are good 
and commendable if the planets are benefic. The health of 
@ person is also determined by the planets occupying or as- 
pecting the third house from the Lagna-pada. 


Reading of the Upapada Kundali. 


61. Jaimini has ‘paid a special attention to the 
Upapada ( place subordinate to the Lagnapada, i.e. pada 
of the place near the Ascendant). Just as the Lagna- 


56 Upadesa Sutra 


pada is helpful in determining the prospects of man, Upapada 

_is helpful in determining the qualities of the wife, There 

‘ are various explanations of the term ‘upapada’ suggested by 
scholars (vide commentary on Sutra I. 4:1) A malefic planet, 
aslord of, or present in, the second house from the Upapada, 
unless asperted by a benefic planet, leads to the loss of wife, 
or monkhood, If the planet, occupying the Upapada or the 
second house from it, or, if the lord of the Upapada or its 
second, be in his fall, the native loses his wife, while he gets 
many wives if the planet at those places be in exaltation. 
Similarly, if the Upapada, or its second, be the sign 
‘Mithuna’ (Gemini), the native gets many wives. Various 
other characteristics of the wife or her sufferings are given 
as indicated by the planets present in the Upapada or its 
second. A man’s male issues are determined by planets 
present in the fifth place from the pada of the house 
occupied by the Significatory Planet, or from the Upapada, 
or from the planet who is Putra-karaka. 


The Twelve Bhavas or Houses. 


62. Jaimini has neither expressly mentioned the 
twelve houses by the term ‘ bhavas’ anywhere; nor, he has 
definitely assigned any fruits to them. The term ‘bhava’ is 
of course used by him along with the term Rasi in ( 1.1-33) 
as akin to it. From the different fruits specified by him by 
virtue of the twelve places occupied by the Significatory 
Planet or by virtue of aspects of planets on them, the follow- 
ing points can be satisfactorily gathered. The first and the 
seventh houses are almost of equal importance. The seventh 
is, in, fact, a counterpart of the first, and ‘ dasas’’ or periods 
of life are many times calculated ffom the more powerful of 
the two—the first and the seventh. Jaimini does not look 
upon the seventh house as one in opposition, being placed at 


Introduction . 57 


a distance of 180 degreesas the Greek or Modern Astrologers:' 
do. The idea of opposition of houses appears, however, to 

be lurking in his mind as he has stated the 10th, the 12th 

and the 3rd houses, as opposing respectively the, 4tb, the 

2nd and the 11th houses, ( vide I. 6. ) presumably, as they: 
are placed exactly opposite to each other. The fifth and the 
ninth do not, however, oppose each other as they form an. 
equilateral triangle with the first and, hence, are in alliance. 
with it. The bhavas or houses possessed specific importance. 
by virtue of their numerical place from the sign of the 

Ascendant or that of the Significatory Planet or that sign 

which formed the pada or the upapada of the Lagna, 

irrespective of the consideration whether the house or bhava 

was the first or second or so on from the equinoctial point. 

It is not clearly stated by Jaimini, whether he takes the 

exact degree of the Ascendandant, or the degree in a sign 

occupied by the Significatory Planet as marking the com- 

mencement of the house (bhava), or, whether he takes by the 

twelve houses the exact twelve divisions of the zodiac 

Mesa, Vrsabha etc., or those commencing from the spring 

equinoctial point. It appears, however, that he takes the 

last view, as can be well inferred from the importance he 

has given to calculation in degrees inside the twelfth part of 
the Zodiac in determening the different Karaka grahas. 


Events in life considered by Jaimini. 


63. In.writing his treatise Jaimini has paid‘ attention 
to the main things and events in the life of the individual ' 
as limited by the extent of civilization at his time. He has 
discussed-the general career of the individual consisting of 

~ his nature, tendencies, and qualities; he has also discussed 
his monetary prospects, “his religious tendencies, learning 
‘and scholarship; he has also discussed his domestic happi- 


ness, the nature of his life and the chances of progeny; and 
g 


58 . Upadesa Sutra 


lastly, he has discussed the span of his life, the time of death 
and the cause of death and the kind of death also. He has, 
briefly referred to the chances of his getting unexpected: 
prosperity, He has also laid down the general lines for 
determining similar things and events in the case of hig 
nearest relatives also. In determining the principal events 
in the life of the individual, he bas paid special attention to 
the Significatory Planet, who is believed to determine his 
weal and woe. In determining the monetary prospects he has 
paid special attention to the Lagna~pada. He has paid an 
equal attention to the Upapada or the pada of the neighbour 
of the Lagna which he has mainly considered in connection 
with determining the nature and qualities of the wife of the 
individual. He has given with a detailed discussion the vari- 
ous kinds of calculations of the periods of life, called ‘dasas’ 
and shown the various ways of determining the span of life 
and the exact time of death by means of them. In deter- 
mining the details, he has followed the method given in the 
Naksatra Astrology of the old sages introducing only such 
modifications as were necessary for adjusting the Naksatra 
calculation to the Ragi calculation. 
General Astrological principles laid down by Jaimini. 

64. As is clear from -the remarks made above, Jaimini 
was the founder of the Science of Astrology, based on read— 
ing the different kinds of horoscopes characterized by the 
12 signs of the zodiac, which were substituted by him in the 
place of the 27 Naksatras. The general principles laid 
down by-him can be sketched as follows:—(i) The planets 
determined the fate of the individual, the signs occupied by 
them playing only a passive part. (ii) The seventh house ’ 
from the Ascendant was as important as the Ascendant, both 
possibly being looked upon as Lagnas—one touching the 

horizon at the east and the other at the west. (iii) The 


Introduction _ 59 


first house in the horoscope could be the Ascendant or the 
seventh from it, as also the house occupied by the native's 
Significatory Planet or the seventh from it. (iv) The total 
life period of the native was determined by means of the 
planets owning the first and the eighth houses, as also by 
means of the Moon and Saturn, in accordance with the, 
nature of signs they occupied. (v) The total life-period 
was subdivided into smaller life—periods, called ‘dasas’ which 
were assigned to the 12 signs or the nine planets one after 
another; these smaller periods determined the weal and woe 
of the native, asalso his time of death. (vi) The second, 
the fourth, the fifth, the ninth and the eleventh signs as 
also planets therein, from any sign or a planet, formed a 
sort of co-operation with the sign or the planet for the award 
of the results. (vii) The aspect of other signs or planets cast 
at any sign or planet strengthened the award of the fruit. 


Determination of the General career of man. 

65. As observed above, a man’s career, according to 
Jaimini, depends mainly upon the Significatory Planet for the 
Self, the sign occupied by whom is to be placed first in the 
horoscope popularly called “ Atmakarka-kundali "> ‘The 
details of the career are to be determined on the strength 
of the co-operation given by the other planets in accords 
ance with the relative position of their houses with the 
house occupied by the Significatory Planet in the horoscope, 
‘Thus, the planet or planetsin the tenth house determine 
the individual’s general nature; the planets in the first 
and second, his profession ; the planets in the fourth, his re- 
sidence.; the planets in the ninth, his religion and devotion; 
the planets in the seventh, the nature of his wife ; the pla- 

nets in-the third, his strength ; and, lastly the planets in the 
twelfth determine his life beyond and the deity worshipped 
by him. The planets in the first, the second and the fifth 





60 Upadesa Sutra 


determine his learning and scholarship; while the planets in 
the fifth and: ninth determine his friendship and loving dis- 
position. Details about wealth are determined by THeAne 
of the Lagna Pada Kundali on the strength of the relative 
position of the planets with the first house in that Kundah or 
horoscope. Similarly, details about wife are to be gathered 
from the Upapada-Kundali on the strength of the relation 
of planets with the first house or Upapada in that Kundali. 
Rajayoga and other Yogas. 

66. Jaimini has recorded very briefly some special 
features in the horoscope which indicate sudden lift in life or 
downfall. These features later on are recorded in large num- 
bers by astrologers under the name of ‘ yogas’ or accidents. 
The prominent among these ‘yogas’ or windfalls is the ‘ raja- 
yoga’ or ‘ royal fortune ’ of which a few types are given by 
Jaimini, in the third quarter of the first Adhyaya ; they are 

- elaborately described later on by him in the third Adhyaya ; 
but, it is doubtful whether the third and the fourth Adhyayas 
are written by the same author as. wrote the first two. 
Jaimini observes that there is ‘ rajayoga’ if a man has the 
same planet aspecting the first house in the three horoscopes 
based respectively on the sign or Ragi, hour or Hora, and 
Naksatra or lunar mansion. Similarly, if malefic planets alone 
occupy both the third andthe sixth houses, they indicate 
‘rajayoga.’ He hasalso observed that the presence of the 
Moon, Jupiter and Venus in the second house or the pre- 
sence of any planet in exaltation there, indicates Prosperity. 
So also, if the foot (pada) of the seventh house happens to 
bein trine or square of the horoscope (Janma-lagna-K undali) 
of the native, he is exceptionally lucky; heis also very lucky 
if the lagnapada or its seventh has an unopposed ‘ argala’ or 
alliance of planets. Jaimini has made a general observation 
that conditions exactly opposite to these, mentioned above, 


Introduction #1 
Are indicative of utter poverty, or ‘ daridryayoga.’ . He hat 
mentioned a special yoga called * kemadruma’ indicative of 
complete poverty caused by an equal number of malefic planets 
in the second and the eighth place from the Ascendant, or 
from the Navatiga of the Significatory Planet or from the 
‘pada’ of the Ascendant. This yoga is also mentioned by 
later astrologers like Varahamihira, but under different con- 
ditions. Jaimini has mentioned a few more coincidences or 
yooas indicative of ‘ yana’ (vehicles), ‘ vitana’ (sacrifices), 
‘yajakiya’ (high Government Office), ‘senanitva’ (army 
generalship), ‘ dhi , (Extraordinary intellect), ‘ bala’ (extra- 
ordinary strength), ‘rajacinnba’ (emblems of royalty), 
‘bandha’ (imprisonment), ‘ netraghata’ (eye-disease) and 
soon. In one Sutra only, Jaimini has mentioned the effects 
of two or more planets in one and the same house. It can 
be reasonably concluded that astrologers who followed him 
especially Sphujidhvaja, Minaraja and others developed the 
results of one or more planets present in or aspecting one 
and the same house, very systematically by taking different 
and different combinations, in different houses. 


DASAS or LIFE PERIODS, 


Kinds of dagas. 


67. The doctrine of Dasas, or periods of life, appears 
to have been sufficiently developed at the time of Jaimini 
as is clear from the kind of attention he has paid to it, and 
the reference he has made to the several kinds of Dasas, The 
term ‘ dasa’ refers to the period of time ina man’s life, be- 

, lieved to be in charge of a planet, who is to guide the destinies 
of the man during his period. The whole span of life is 
divided into 12 smaller periods corresponding to the 12 
-signs, which are governed by the several planets in succes- 
sion whoare believed to determine the various events of 


63 Upadesa Sutra 


life during their respective periods: The dasas are classifi- 
ed by Jaimini under different principles ee ; regard to 
their duration, the dasas are divided into sthira i. e. pos+ 
sessed of a fixed number of years and * cara ; 1, € possessed 
of an unfixed number of years. They are divided a ‘yasi- 
dagas’ assigned to different signs in succession, and ° graha> 
dagas’ assigned to different planets in succession, and generally 
referred to by the term ‘navarnéa’ by Jaimini. They are 
also divided into (i) ‘ paryaya-dasas’ assigned to different 
signs in an uninterrupted succession (ii) ‘ kendra-dasas ’ as- 
signed to the four signs in Kendra or square first, then to 
the next signs called ‘ panaphara’ or succedant signs, and 
then to the next four signs called ‘apoklima’ or cadent 
signs, and (iii) ‘ trikona-dagas ‘ assigned to the planets in the 
four trines taken one after another. Although the ‘dasas’ 
are assigned to signs, the fate of the individual during the 
dasa or period is determined by the planets occupying the 
sign or ruling the sign or aspecting the sign. The word 
* navarhga’ as also ‘ cara-navarnsx’ is used by Jaimini pre- 
sumably in the sense of ‘ dagi’ depending on a planet irres- 
pective of the sign, with the number of years in his charge 
found by calculating the distance in signs from the sign oc- 
cupied by him to the sign owned :by him. These ‘ graha- 
dasas * are nine in number with the number of years in 
their charge varying from 1 to 12, Tt is these ‘grahadadas’ 
‘which are current at the present time considerably modifi- 
ed, no doubt,in many respects, and popularly known by the 
words ‘ virnsottari-dasas ’ and ‘astottari-dagas’ in. accordance 
with the maximum sum of years, 120 or 108, made up by 
them. 


Span of life measured by dasas. 


68. When the life period of the individual is distyj- 
buted over the 12 signs or rasis which make a total of 96 


Introduction 63 


years, the ‘daéas’ are called ‘ sthira-dasas’ as they have a 

fixed number of years for the signs—7 saa for the cardi- 

nal or movable signs, 8 years for the fixed signs, and 9 Deere 

for the mutable signs. These ‘sthiradasas’ commence with 

the sign of that planet who occupies. the poste of 

‘Brahma’ in the native’s horoscope. The life period of the 

native is the total sum of years given by the sign occupied 

by Brahma up to the sign occupied by the planet Mahesgvarn./ 
During the period of Mahesvara too, the native becomes 
susceptible to death in the trikona-daga of the sign occupied 

by the lord of the 8th house from Mahegvara. The span 

of life is also determined by means of another kind of ‘dagas’ 

called ‘caraparyaya-daga’ which commences with the as- 

cendant or the seventh from it, whichever is stronger. The 

distance in signs from a sign to its lord, calculated ahead in 

the case of odd signs and backwards in the case of even 
signs, is taken to be the number of years contributed by 
the sign. The total number of years, contributed by all the 
12 signs, is taken to be the total life period of the native. 


Events in life determined by dagas. 


69. The various incidents in life, characterized by 
good or bad strokes of fortune, as also the time of death, 
are determined by different varieties of the two main kinds 
of dasds mentioned above. The -Trikona, the Manduka 
(also named Trikita) and the Sula Dagas are all alike to 
‘each other in respect of the serial order of the Dasas based 
on the sextiles. They differ only in respect of the sign 
where they commence. The Trikona daga commences with 
the most powerful out of the first, the fifth, and the ninth 
signs ; the Manduka-das@ starts from the more powerful out 
of the first and the seventh signs; while the Sila-daga 
starts with the more powerful out of the first and the 


64 Upadesa Sutra 
seventh signs in the case of the native himself, from the 
ninth from’ 1 or 7 in the case of his father, from the fourth 
from 1 or 7 in the case of his mother and so on. All these 
three kinds of dasas proceed in the order of trines i. e. 
1,5, 9, then 3, 6, 10, then 3, 7, 11 and then 4, 8, 12, the 
number one standing for the house or sign of commence- 
ment. The Siiladaga is used in determining the time of 
death of self and other relatives. The dasés known as 
: kendradasas’ are those which proceed in the order obtaining 
in the Kendra signs or squares. If the starting Dasa is 
taken as 1, the Dasas proceed in the order, 1, 4, 7, 10, 
then 2, 5, 8, 11 and lastly 3, 6, 9 and 12. The Kendradasas 
are generally taken as ‘ grahadasas,’ ; their total number 
is nine corresponding to the number of planets, and the 
number of years for the several dasas is furnished by the 
distance in signs from the planet to his own house ; these 
dagas are also known as Navarnsa-dasas. There are 
dasas called ‘drgdagas’ by Jaimini, which have got their 
serial order, as the name shows, in accordance with the 
aspects. The dasas commence from the ninth house from 
the Ascendant, which is followed by the opposite of it 
and then followed by the signs on the right and the left- 
sides ( Parsva ). The opposite, the right and the left signs 
are to be taken strictly according to Jaimini’s view as 
defined in paras ( 46,-48 ) above. After the dagas of the 
ninth, its opposite and its sides, there follow the dagas 
of the 10th, its opposite and its sides, and then, lastly, 
there are the dasas of the 11th, its opposite and its sides. 


General rules about daéas, 


70. -All the dasas mentioned above have the years 
7,8, and 9 in accordance with the nature of the sign—Cara, 
Sthira and Dvisvabhava and they couid be called ‘ pag. 





Introduction 65 


dagas.’ Whenever Jaimini has used the word ‘ navarhéa ’ 
in connection with the dasas, the years are to be calculated 
from the planet to the sign owned by him. The Navarnsa- 
dagas are strictly graha-dasas which are nine, and not twelve 
in number. The commentators have explained the 
Navathgadasas, as subordinate smaller periods, popularly 
known as ‘ antardagas,’ and have assigned one year uniform- 
ly to each. There are two fundamental principles common 
to all the dasag, that they begin with the sign which is 
more powerful out of the first (Ascendant) and the seventh 
signs, unless stated otherwise ; and the years of the dagag 
are to be counted inthe reoular order of succession from 
the Ragi to the ruling planet or the planet to his own sign, as 
the case may be, in the case of Visuma or male signs, while 
they are to be taken in the reverse order in case the sign 
is Sama or female. Besides these important dasas, Jaimini 
has mentioned dasas like ‘ yooardha-dasa’ (combination of 
Sthira and Cara dagas), and ‘tararka-dasa,’ and has indirect- 
ly referred to some other dasas inthe Sutra “ siddha 
ududaye” (II. iv. 18). Possibly he refers to the dagas based 
on Naksatras of which the ‘ virngottari’ and ‘ astottari’ 


? 
which are current to-day, appear to be the developments. 


The relative strength of signs and planets. 


71. Jaimini has carefully considered the question of 
the relative strength of two or more signs as also of two or 
more planets: The presence of more planets, the presence 
or aspect of Jupiter or Mercury, the presence of the lord of 
the sign etc., are generally the factors which make a sign 
stronger than another. The odd sign is generally stronger 
than the even sign. The séhira sign is more powerful than 
the cara sign, while the dvisvabhava sign is stronger than 
the sthira sign. As far as planets are concerned, the 

9 


66 Upadesa Sutra 


planet. in his own sign or in his exaltation is stronger than 
another who is not so. Soalso, a planet who is more ad- 
vanced in a sign is stronger than another who is less ad- 
vanced. The Karaka Graha, is the strongest of all planets 
in the horoscope of an individual. He is so, irrespective of 
the place he occupies, be that place cara, or sthira. 


Brahma, Mahegvara and Rudra planets. 


72. It isan interesting thing to note that Jaimini has 
assigned the posts of the three famous deities Brahma, 
Mahesvara and Rudra to planets: who are believed to act 
as those deities during the life-time of the native. The 
Brahma planet is one, who is the most powerful out of the 
lords of the sixth, the eighth and the twelfth houses from 
the Ascendant, who is situated in an odd sign and who 
occupies a house backwards within six signs from the more 
powerful out of the Ascendant and its seventh. If Saturn, 
Rahu or Ketu happen to be the Brahma planet, then the 
sixth respectively from them i. e. Mars, Mercury or J upiter 
becomes the Brahma. The lord of the eighth from the sign 
occupied by the Significatory Planet is Mahegvara ; $0 
also, the lord of the stronger out of the eighth and the 
twelfth signs from the Significatory Planet is Mahesvara, in 
case the ruling planet is associated with Rahu or Ketu. 
Rudra is the planet who is more powerful out of the lords of 
the eighth houses from the first and the seventh. The life 
of the native extends from the period of Brahma to the 
' period of Mahesgvara and the. trine period of the years of 
Rudra (trikonantardasa) is, generally, the time of death. 
In connection with the death of the relatives of the native, 
‘different planets have been mentioned respectively as 
controllers for different relatives. Thus, the Sun and Venus 
‘are mentioned respectively in connection with the father of 
the native and father’s relatives, the Moon and Mars 





Introduction 67 


‘respectively in connection with the mother and her relatives 
and Jupiter in connection with the native’s wife. 


The three General Methods for determining longevity. 


73. Different methods were followed by different 
schools of astrological thought at the time of Jaimini to 
determine the span of life of an individual, and it appears 
that Jaimini has chosen a few important methods only, out 
of them. Jaimini has sketched a few methods of determin- 
ing the exact duration of life, the time of death, and the 
cause of death also. The lords of the Ascendant and the 
eighth houses from the Ascendant, the lord of the howr 
(hora lagna) of birth, and the planets Moon aud Saturn are 
preeminently considered as bestowers of life, and the signs 
which they occupy are the determining factors of the total 
length of that life. Thus, if the lords of the Ascendant and 
its eighth occupy the cara signs, or one of them occupies a 
sthira sign and another a dvisvabhava sign, the life is long. 
Similar is the case if the Moon and Saturn occupy the cara 
signs or one occupies a_ sthira sign and another a dvi- 
svabhava sign. The same is the case, if both the birth hour 
(hora-lagna) and the Ascendant are characterized by cara 
signs, or, if one is s¢hira and another is dvisvabhava, Tf 
both the signs occupied by the three pairs’ (taken, of 
course, separately) are duisvabhava, or if one sign is cara and 
another sthira, then, the span of life is middling. If both 
the signs occupied by the pairs are sthira, or, if one sign is 
cara and another dvisvabhava, the life is short. The span 
of long life is from 72 to 108 years; that of middling life 
is from 36 to 72, and that of short life is upto 36 years, 
The three divisions of life are'termed ‘kaksa’ or kakgya. Tn 
cases of discord, the result, given by two out of the three 
methods, is to be taken. In case the three methods give three 





68 Upadesa Sutra 


‘different results, the result given by the Ascendant and the 

hour is to be followed. It is evident that the cara signs are 
looked upon as possessed of an active nature, and, hence 
they tend towards long life, while sthira or fixed signs tend 
to short life as they are stationary ; while, the dviseabhava 
or the mutable signs, possessed of both the natures as 
they are, tend to middling life. 


Other methods for determining the span of life. 

74. Out of the two planets governing life viz. the 
Moon and Saturn, Saturn, being a malefic one, the life de- 
termined by thesigns becomes reduced by one stage ( kaksa ) . 
in case Saturn be one of the deciding planets; for example, 
if the life be determined as long by virtue of two cara signs, 
Sani makes it middling; if it be already determined as middl- 
ing he makes it short, and if it be short, he makes it miser- 
able. The aspect of Jupiter on any one of the determining 
signs makes it longer bya stage ; if Jupiter aspects Saturn, 
the action of the latter is counteracted. Life is also increased 
by a stage, if the Ascendant or the seventh sign from it or 
the Significatory Planet be between two benefic planets ; the 
result is the opposite one, if any of theabove be trapped 
between two malefic planets. Another method of deter- 
mining the length of life is by means of the Rudra planet. If 
the Rudra planet occupies the Kendra from the Significatory 
planet, or from the Ascendant, the life is long; if he occupies 
the Panaphara, the life is middling ; while, if he occupies 
‘the Apoklima, the life is short. Exactly reverse is the case, 
if the Significatory Planet be in the ninth house i. e. the life 
is short if the Rudra planet occupies the Kendra from the 
Significatory Planet or from the Ascendant; the life is 
‘middling if he occupies the Panaphara, while it is long, if he 
occupies the Apoklima. As an exception to all that is given 
above, it is said that a man gets middling life, if the Jord of 


Introduction me 
the Ascendant or the seventh be the same as the Significatory 
Planet or occupies the same house as the Significatory Planet. 


Another method of determining the span of life, Without 
any specific division like long or middling or short, is by 
calculating the years given by the signs commencing with 
the sign occupied by Brahma and ending with the sign oc- 


cupied by Mahesvava. 
Time of death. 


75. The exact time of the occurrence of death during 
the span of life is also determined by Jaimini in a variety 
of ways. The principal lines of consideration can be gather- 
ed as follows: The lord of the eighth sign from the 
Ascendant or its seventh is taken as Rudra who is mainly 
instrumental in bringing about the death of the native ; 
and, death generally occurs in the period of the sign ( dasa ) 
occupied by Rudra. It may occur in the Rudrasuladasa, i. e. 
the period (dasa) of the sign which is the fifth or the ninth 
from the sign occupied by Rudra. Another way of finding 
out the exact time of death is by means of the Dvara and 
the Bahya Rasgis. When both the Dvara and the Bahya 
signs are spoiled i. e. occupied by malefic planets, death 
takes place in the Navathsadasa of the Dvara or the 
Bahya sign. It is also observed by Jaimini that the planet, 
who is looked upon as the Maraka planet, is also instru- 
mental in bringing about the death of the native in his own 
period or dast. Maraka Planet is defined as that planet 
who is the lord of the eighth house or who is the most 
powerful out of the lords of the third, the sixth, the eighth 

and the twelfth houses. 


Kind and cause of death 


76. Jaimini has given his views on the cause of death 
and the kind of death an individual is destined to have, on 


1 


70. Upadesa Sutra 


certain fundamental principles as usual. The planet. or 
planets that occupy the third house from the Ascendant 
sign, or, from the sign occupied by the significatory planet, 
are mainly taken into account in determining the cause and 

. the kind. If the planets be benefic, death occurs without 
torture and trouble in a country of civilized people ; if the 
planets be malefic, death is attended with trouble and _tor- 
ture in a country of unreligious and uncivilized people. If 
Jupiter or Venus be present in the third house or aspects 
it, the native has full consciousness upto the moment of 
death ; otherwise, his death is attended with unconscious- 
ness and delirium. I the Sun be present in the third house 
or aspects it, death is due to the king’s action. The Moon’s 
presence in the third, or his aspect thereon, causes death by 
consumption. The presence, or the aspect of Mars there 
brings about death by wounds and burns. The presence of 
Jupiter, or his aspect there, causes death by distress or 
vomiting. The presence, or aspect of Venus there, causes 
death by diabetes. The presence of Saturn, or his aspect 
there,causes death by diseases of blood circulation, while the 
presence, or aspect of Ketu there, causes death by cholera, 
dropsy and the like. 


RATIONAL BACKGROUND FOR JAIMINI'S DICTA 


Basis of Astrological ideas 


77. A careful analysis and a critical examination of 
the contents of the Atharva Jyotisa, the various Siddhanta 
Books, the available Karikas of Vrddha writers, and the 
Sutras of Jaimini, are enough to show that Jaimini has 
taken fully into account the views of old writers on astro- 
logy and then given his dicta on the several astrological 
topics in his Sutras. It is highly creditable to him that 
almost all of his astrological observations are in ‘perfect 


Introduction 71 


agreement with the astronomical facts and aes hag 
noticed in his days. The astrological observations in the 
Atharva Jyotisa and similar ancient works had their origin 
in the religious, superstitious and sacerdotal ideas regarding 
the Naksatras, Tithis and Muhurtas prevalent:in those days, 
These observations, hence, could not be expected to be 
logical conclusions based upon facts and figures gathered 
by a wide observation, 


Rational basis for planets’ influence 


78. The structure of Ancient Indian Astrology, which 
was based upon the foundation of mere superstition and 
legends connected with the several Naksatras, began to shake 
in course of time by the force of the application of logical 
reasons and arguments, and it became necessary, in course 
of time, to furnish a solid foundation based upon reasoned 
facts and figures. Jaimini has tried to introduce the ele- 
ment cf reason in the conclusions and observations made 
by him. The peculiar influence of the Sun and the Moon 
on the earth, in the form of tides and the supply of life and 
energy, was well known since very early days, and on its 
analogy, the stars and planets too, were reasonably believed 
to be exerting their influence on the animate as well as in- 
animate nature. The planets, being nearer, of course, ex- 
erted greater influence than stars. The Zenith and the 
Nadir points in the Zodiac were considered as next in im- 
portance to the two points on the eastern and the western 

horizon, as far as influence on nature and man was con- 
cerned. Although the equinoxes and solstices were known 
several centuries ago, the ecliptic circle was regularly divid- 
ed into four equal portions of 90 degrees each, a few centuries 
only before the Christian Era, the literary evidence for this 
being furnished by the Srauta Sutra of Baudhayana and the 
works of Jain authors. In course of time, each of the four 





a2 Upadesa Sutra 


Portions was further divided into three parts, the resulting 
12 parts corresponding to the twelve months of the year as 
far as the Sun’s presence therein was concerned. Thus, the 
division of the Ecliptic circle into 12 equal parts, based on 
rational and secular considerations, was genuinely Indian. 
An additional evidence in this respect is furnished by the 
fact that the word ‘rasi’ is seen used everywhere for the 
twelve divisions of the Keliptic, and not any other word 
possessed of the sense ‘ sign’ or‘ mark.’ (See paras 39 and 
50 above. ) 


Rational basis for aspects 


73. As far as results are concerned, Jaimini has fol- 
lowed the old line of belief, possibly because no verification 
could be had with respect to them by astronomical data. 
Similarly, in citing the friendly or inimical relations of 
signs and planets stationed there, he has followed supersti - 
tion, and he looks upon the second, the fourth, the fifth, the 
ninth and the eleventh houses as friendly ones, irrespective 
of their being aspected or not. He was very particular, how- 
ever, in introducing changes which were required by astro- 
nomical considerations, For example, he took into conside- 
ration the angle made by the ecliptic circle with the equa- 
torial circle in fixing the signs to the two sides and the 
front on the ecliptic circle, for purposes of aspect or ‘ drsti.’ 
He was guided in this respect by the same considerations as 
weighed with the astronomers of those days in fixing the 
two Mahapatas, Vyatipata and Vaidhrti. (see para 39 
above.) The sign midway between the two side-signs, was 
looked upon as the opposite sign. As the four signs, 3, 6, 9 
and 12, characterized by the equinoxes or’ solstices at their 
ends, could not bave two other signs, possessed of the same 
celestial latitude as their sides, the sign at anangular dis- 
tance of 180 degrees was taken as the opposite sign and 





Introduction 73 


the two ‘signs at an angular distance of 90 degrees were 
taken as the two side signs. 


Rational basis for planets’ combinations 


80. In connection with the alliance of planets, there 
could not be any other guide for Jaimini except the con- 
ventions obtaining at his time. The opposite sign was 
looked upon as only a complementary sign of equal impor- 
tance and strength as the original one. The houses 1, 5 
and 9 were looked upon as mutually helpful as they made 
an equilateral triangle ; similarly, the houses 1,4, 7 and 10 
which made a square, as also the houses 1,3, 5, 7, 9 and 11 
which made a hexagon. Out of these several houses which 
ave shown to be mutuallyzhelpful, the third and the tenth 
were discarded, as the third, by the convention prevalent 
then, was a malefic one and the tenth was opposed to the 
fourth ( the house of happiness). It is thus obvious how 
the houses 1, 4, 5, 9 and 11 formed an alliance or Argala, 
while the seventh was no less than a prototype or a com- 
plement. It is already shown above (see paras 19, 20 and 
49) that the third and the sixth houses were inimical as, in 
the Naksatra Astrology the third Naksatra was designated 
‘vipad’ (misfortune), the sixth as ‘pratyari,’ and the eighth 
as ‘vadha’. The benefic or malefic nature of planets was 
determined as shown above ( see para 21 ) by their colours, 
the red and black colours being looked upon as bad, being 
the symbols of rajas and amas respectively. 


THE STARTING POINT ON THE NAKSATRA CIRCLE 


The starting point fixed before Jaimini’s time 


81. A special feature of Jaimini is the extraordinary 
importance he has given to the Karaka Planet in . respect 
of framing the career of the individual. As the Karaka, er 

ty 





74 Upadesa Sutra 


‘the’ Significatory planet, was decided on the strength of the 
progress in degrees made by the planet in the sign occupied 
by him, it can well nigh be assumed that scholars at the 
time of Jaimini could make accurate calculations in degrees 
of the advance of a planet in a sign. This necessarily 
implies that the starting point had been settled by conven- 
tion on the Ecliptic Circle, from which the calculation could 
start. Unless such a point had been fixed up, it was not 
possible tofix up the boundaries of the different signs and 
to calculate the progress made by a planet ina sign. The 
explanation, that Jaimini lived after the time of the Surya 
Siddhanta and the Brhajjataka, and he took the end of 
‘yevati’ Naksatra, as the first point of Mesa or Aries, 
appears acceptable, only as far as the latter part of the 
explanation is concerned. Considerable evidence in 
Jaimini’s work such as the importance paid to the Rasi- 
padas, the method of defining the aspects, the mention of 
Karaka Grahas as supremely important in judging the 
career of the native and his relatives, and last, but not the 
least, the absence of any feasible influence of Varaha-Mihira 
on him, and his influence on the other hand upon Minaraja, 
prove conclusively that Jaimini lived before Varahamihira. 


Milla Star the starting point in Vedic times. 


82. Different starting points on the circle of the 
‘Ecliptic are found recorded in India in different ancient (and 
mediaeval) books. There is the well-known passage in the 
marriage hymn of the Reveda “sg Fara TAHA: Gaga” 
(%.%. KX 83. 13) which states that bullocks should 
be slaughtered (for the Madhuparka rite) in the Lunar 
month in which the constellation Magha or Agha 
accompanies the Full Moon, while the marriage should 
actually be celebrated in that Lunar Month in which Phal- 
‘guni stars accompany the full moon. The passage evid- 





Introduction 1 


ently indicates that the Northern course of the Sun (Utta- 
rayana) commenced in the Phalguna Month marking the 
commencement of the marriage season. The famous pass- 
age in the Satapatha Brahmana “hrithika vai prachyai 
digo na cyavante” supplies the next literary reference to 
the position of the Ecliptic circle. In order that krttika 
should be noticed always rising at due east, the 
point of the Equinox is necessary to be near the Rohini 
constellation (Aldabaran) which is stationed about ten de- 
grees east of the cluster of Krttika, which is about 55 de- 
grees to the East of the first point of Aries to-day. Pre- 
sumably, the Naksatras came in vogue immediately after 
the time of Reveda, and, as its name signifies, Mula or Be- 
ginning was the first Naksatra of the Naksatra series, the 
cycle of Naksatras starting from the twin stars forming the 
end of the Scorpion’s tail, and having the small triangular 
stars forming the mouth of Mrga situated exactly opposite 
of it i. e, at an angular distance of 180 degrees from it. 


References to the starting point in the Mahabharata, 


the Upanisads and the Vedanga Jyotisa. 


$3. The Mahabharata, the earliest portion of which 
is dated about 3000 B. G., refers to Sravana as marking the 
commencement of the cycle of Naksatras, evidently because 
Sravana was the first of one of the three groups. of Naksa - 
tras which commenced with Rohini, Hasta and Sravana re- 
spectively, the vernal equinox possibly Occurring in’ those 
days in Rohini. The passage “ maghadyam sravisthardhan- 
tam etc,” in the Maitryupanisad stands chronologically next 
in respect of literary evidence. The passage indirectly re. 
fers to the presence of the Summer Solstice at the beginning 
of Magha. The Vedanga Jyotisa, which comes next in fur- 
nishing evidence in this respect, places the Summer Solstice 


76 Opadesa Sutra 


when'the Sun arrived’ at the middle 6f Aslesa aiid the 
Winter Solstice when he arrived at the first point of Sravistha, 
The Vedanga Jyotisa bas mentioned the earliest day of the 
year also for the Winter Solstice, viz. the first day of the 
month of Magha. (cf. “ fgid) sade quiacgnal az i arate 
STAG: aa: WE Ra as ys 


Reference in Baudhayana’s Sitra. 


84. There is an interesting indirect reference to the 
position of the solstices in the Srauta Siitra of Baudhayana 
which mentions four ‘sadasitis’ or divisions of the Kcliptic, 
each measuring 86 degrees, the remaining 16 degrees 
making a small remaining fifth division. Baudhayana com- 
mences the first division at the first degree of Tula sign. the 
second at the twentyseventh degree of the sign Dhanus, the 
third at the twentythird degree of Animisa or Mina, and th 
fourth at the nineteenth degree of Mithuna. The fourth 
division ends with the fourteenth degree of the sign ‘Kanya’, 
where the fifth small division of sixteen degrees begins. 
This ‘small division of 16 degrees in Kanya sign, attended 
with the Sun, made the famous Fortnight of the Manes 
(Pitrpaksa) which, in the days of Baudhayana commenced, 
earliest in the year,60 days after the Summer Solstice, when 
the first crop of the year became ready for the manes in 60 
days. It can be safely inferred from what is stated above 
that’ the Summer Solstice was at the fifteenth degree of 
Karka sign at the time of Baudhayana i. e. at the end of 
the ¢ of Pusya Naksatra. 


Reference in the Siddhanta works. 
85. The often quoted passage “ pausnante bhaganah 
smrtah’’, occurring in the Siddhanta works implies 
that the vernal equinox occurred in those days when 





hy 
Introduction ‘ 
the sun. reached the end of the Revati constellation 
and placed his foot in the Asvini constellation. There 
are passages stating the same in the Paiicasiddhantika and 
Brhatsarhhita of Varahamihira. Regarding the exact  posi- 
tion of this first point of Asvini, however, there is a con- 
siderable difference of opinion among the learned scholars of 
the present day. In the light of the historic perspective 
given above, it is certain that the writer of the line 
“ pausnante etc.” refers to the end of the Revati Naksatra 
division, which must be in accordance with the Naksatra 
divisions conventionally understood in those days. The 
Jain works of those days give ‘abhijit’ Naksatra (Uttara- 
sadha ¢) as marking the Winter Solstice, Asvini 4 the 
Spring Equinox, Pusya ; the Summer Solstice, and Svati 
beginning the Autumnal Equinox. The table at the end 
will Clearly show the position of the Equinoxes and the 
Solstices in the eight different periods, referred to above , 
indicating the approximate dates of the various representa- 
tive works of those periods mentioned therein. 


The Twin stars of Mala--the starting point. 


86. Thus, it is certain, that, right on since the days 
of the Vedic Sarahitas, when the Ecliptic circle was divided 
into 27 equal parts, there was accepted some fixed point 
where the circle of the 27 Naksatras was believed to com- 
mence. The word ‘ gravisthardha,’ used in the Maitryupa- 
nisad, bears testimony to the fact that the boundary lines 
of the Naksatra divisions were clearly fixedat that time. 
If Sravistha and Magha, referred to in the passage, were to 
mean only the clusters of those stars, the angular distance 
from the Magha cluster to the centre of the Dhanistha cluster 
would not make an exact semi-circular division of the ecliptic 
which is meant in the passage. The starting point of the 


78 Upadesa Sutra 


Naksatra divisions could not evidently be the first point of 
Aévini, which had absolutely no significance in those days, 
as it neither formed the equinoctial point, nor, the solsti- 
cial point. The starting point could not be the first point 
of Magha cluster or Regulus for reasons stated above. The 
starting point of the Naksatra circle was obviously the 
traditional one- the twin stars of Mula-harhani--fixed by 
the Vedic seers and followed since then. 


Mila stars as the starting point followed by unbroken tradition. 
87. The authors of the Vedatiga Jyotisas and the 
writers of the sacred Jain books strictly followed the tradi- 
tional Naksatra divisions starting from the twin stars of 
Mula. The propounders of the Rasi divisions and Baudha- 
yana honoured ‘the same traditional divisions and made the 
first points of Mala, Agvini and Magha divisions the first 
points of the signs Dhanus, Mesa and Sithha respectively, 
and fixed the boundaries of these and other signs accord— 
ingly. The Greek writers and Varahamihira also followed 
the traditional divisions. This unbroken tradition of the 
twin stars of Mula as the starting point of the Naksatra 
divisions, preserved without disturbance for more than five 
thousand years, certainly deserves to be maintained with 
due deference ; and, if, by means of accurate calculations, 
the first point of Agvini Naksatra be fixed ata distance of 
120 degrees from the twin stars of Mula, and, if the angular 
distance from the first point of Agvini, thus fixed, to the 
present vernal equinoctial point be counted as degrees of 
Ayana (ayanarnsas), there would not only be the satisfac- 
tion of having followed the time-honoured Vedic tradition, 
but, the dispute regarding the first point of Agvini, which 
has resulted into several rival views about the number of 
Ayanathsas, would automatically come to an end, just as 
the observance of the wheel of Asoka as an embiem on the 


Introduction 79 
National Flag has stopped all disputes regarding a 
emblems suggested by different schools. 


NECESSARY CORRECTIONS IN THE INDIAN CALENDAR. 


Precession of the equinoxes known to ancient astronomers. 


88. The ancient Indian Astronomers of the days ie 
the Vedic Sarihitas knew the exact days of the two Solstices 
and the two equinoxes. Many of the religious rites and 
sacrifices in ancient India were performed in specific seasons, 
and scholars from time to time had to notice the exact time 
of the seasons. In course of time, they did notice that the 
days of the occurrence of the Ayanasand Visuvas came in 
earlier and earlier in the Calendar, and those Naksatras 
which marked the solstices when the Sun was present in them 
no jonger continued to do so; but, the Naksatras previous 
to them began to mark the solstices when the Sun was. sta- 
tioned therein. For instance, the Summer Solstice which 
was in Phalguni in the Vedic period was noticed in Magha 
in the days of the Maitri Upanisad, in Aslesa in the days of 
the Vedanga Jyotisa and Pusya in the days of the Jain 
Siddhanta. The Ancient Astronomers noticed this pheno- 
menon, not vertically on the circle of the Kcliptic, but hori- 
zontally on the horizon: The Naksatra, which used to rise 
exactly at the eastern point of the horizon, for example 
Krittika in the days of the Satapatha Brahmana, rose in the 
course of a few centuries, more and more northwards. Thig 
movement of the Naksatras, to the north in the case of half 
the number, and to the south in the case of the other half, 
was. called Ayana (of course, Ayana of the Naksatras) on the 
analogy of similar movements of the Sun and the Moon, and 
it was referred to in the Siddhanta books before Varaha- 
mihira. Jaimini has carefully taken into consideration 
this horizontal effect of the precession of the equinoxes in 


80 Upadesa Stitra 


defining, the aspects or dristis. The ancient Indian writers 
have approximately stated 14400 years as the period of time 
for this Ayana of 180 degrees vertically, or of about 48 
degrees horizontally. (For details see my article 
on “ the Precession of the Equinoxes and its discovery 
in India ”’ in Acharya Dbrava Commemoration Volume 
pp. 155-164 ) 


Correction in Tithi Calculation. 


89. A few general remarks can be made here, regard- 
ing the appropriateness of time of such religious and social 
rites and observances, as have got an astrological significance. 
From very early times in India, the Tithi, the Karana, the 
Naksatra, the Vara and the Muhurta, and later on, the Yoga 
came to be looked npon as the principal items of the calen- 
dar, and people undertook and do undertake at present, many 
of their religious and secular activities when as many of these 
items as possible could be auspicious or favourable.. The 
duration of the Tithi was taken to be full sixty ghatikas from 
one Sunrise to the next Sunrise in the Vedic period. The 
Vedanga Jyotisa fixed 39 ghatikas for each Tithi, each 
set of two lunar months being divided into 61 equal 
tithis. In course of time, possibly in the tenth century 
4.D., it was noticed that the Moon took sometimes 
only 54 ghatikasto’ move 12 degrees further and further 
from the Sun, while sometimes she required 65 ghatikas 
to do the same; the duration of the Tithi, accordingly, 
was fixed to be 54 minimum and 65 maximum ghatikas 
(cf: “banavrddhi-rasaksayan” ). It is noticed by very 
accurate observations to-day that the variation is actually be- 

tween 52 and 67 ghatikas. As the angular distance between 
the Sun and the Moon is a matter of actual observation, 
the time can be exactly calculated and the error in almanacs, 


Introduction 81 


risine-from the rough calculations made some centuries 
before, can now be corrected, and it deserves to be corrected: 


Correction in Karana and Naksatra Calculation. 


90. The Karanas, now have lost their significance 
as observed above. They are made to coincide with 
half the tithi and the correction of the error regarding 
tithis is sufficient for the correction of the error in 

‘ Karanas. If, however, the original significance of the 
Karanas is to be followed, the Karana ‘ visti’ signify ing the 
joint of two quarter-fortnights, and, hence inauspicious, 
should occur at the end of each quarter-fortnight i. e. when 
the distance in degrees of the Moon from the Sun is 45°, 90°, 
135° and soon. The Naksatra depends upon the position of 
the Moon in the 27 different asterisms, and its duration can 
be accurately fixed by calculations and verified by the parti- 
cular position of the Moon which can be ascertained, As the 
boundary lines of the Naksatras cannot be verified, and as 
they solely depend upon the first point of Agvini, which is 
a matter of pure convention and belief, a difference can arise 
-—and it has actually arisen at present—regarding the points 
of the commencement and end of each Naksatra, the starting 
point being taken differently by different scholars. As stated 
above, if the first point of Agvini be taken in accordance 
with the time-honoured tradition, and if the boundary lines 
be accordingly fixed, the discrepancy can be removed im- 
mediately. . (see paragraph 87 ). 


Holy days in the Vedic times. 


21. There is another matter in the Indian Vedic. 
Calendar in which a similar correction is desirable. The 
various days of religious and secular importance and festi- 
vals, which are believed to be holy or auspicious at present; 


il 





89 Upadesa Sutra 


have attained that position in different and different periods 
of time: the Aksayya Tritiya, Rsipaficaml, Sakramahotsava, 
and some other rites can be traced to the Vedic period of the 
Samhitas and Brahmanas extending approximately from 
3600 B.C. to 1600 B. C. The spring season commenced in 
those days in Vaisakha, the earliest date for it being the 
third day of Vaisakha (Aksayya Trtiya ).. So also, as the 
Sarad season was found to commence earliest on the first 
day of Kartika, and as new corn also became available at 
the time, the first day of Kartika was possibly fixed as the 
Civil New Year’s Day by Yudhisthira in his days, if not 
earlier. So also, the mean days of the year marking the com- 
mencement of the two Ayanas viz. the Full Moon days of 
Bhadrapada and Phalguna were fixed as sacred days 
for the commencement of the two academic terms for Vedic 
studies. The principal religious ceremonies of the period 
were the two fortnightly sacritices, Darga and Purnamasa, 
and other sacrifices such as Caturmasya and the like. 


Revision of holidays in the Vedaaga Jyotisa period. 
92. The Second period of the Vedadngas can be said 
to have commenced with the time of the Vedanga Jyotisa 
and extended roughly speaking, to the time of the Sutra 
Literature. The specific feature of this period was the re- 
naissance of the Vedic calendar by the authors of the 
Vedanga Jyotisa, which was very essential, because the seasons 
had moved back by a month, since the days of the Vedas, as 
a result of the precession of the equinoxes. Some of the 
important changes can be stated as follows:—the academic 
terms of the year were made to commence on the Full 
Moon’ days of Sravana and Magha, instead of those of 
‘Bhadrapada and Phalguna. Similarly, the Astronomical 
year was made tocommence on the first day of Magha in- 





Introduction 83 


stead of that of Phalguna, The Caturmasya, or the Mon- 
Soon, was made to commence in Sravana and the earliest 
harvest was offered to the gods on the Full Moon Day of 
Asvina, The traditional observance of the New Year’s 
Day on the first of Kartika was left undisturbed, as also 
other rites and festivals which did not depend primarily on 
seasons. Some more religious observances, such, as were 
based on mythology, came in vogue in this period e. g- 
Ramanavaratra, Jyesthopavasayrata, Krshnajayanti, Candi- 
navaratra and the like. 


Second revision during’ the Siitra period. 


93. The third period can be stated to have commenced 
in the early centuries of the Christian Era. 


the Jyotisa Siddhanta books, and the 
Astronomy and Astrology, V 


The writers of 
great scholar of 
arahamihira, carried back once 
more the Indian Calendar by a month as far as the seasons 


Were concerned. They shifted the date of the commence- 
ment of the Rainy Season from the Full Moon day of Sra. 
vana to that of Asadha. The Jain writers also dia the 
same and closed their scriptural year on the Full Moon Day 
of Asadha. They commenced the Rainy Season immediately 
after the Full Moon Day of Asadha and they fixed after 
the lapse of fifty days, their great Sarhvatsari day at the 
end of the Paryusana week on the bright 4fth of 
Bhadrapada, This change in the Calendar can be 

called the Second Renaissance of the Indian Calendar. 

The people of India, who are well known as very conserva: 
tive by nature, did not introduce any change in the dates 
of the festivals and religious observances unless it was obli- 
gatory by reason of the observance of the old date having 


become quite inappropriate and absurd. The performance of 





84 Upadesa Sutra 


the rites, which entirely depended upon geen a 
change of dates absolutely necessary, 4S the o _ si : 
longer remained consistent with the season pertaining to 
the rites. Thus, although the dates of the Rainy season 
were changed, the dates of the commencement of the two 
academic terms were not altered. There was however, 
introduced anew holy day on the Full Moon Day 
of Asadha under the name of Vyasa Paurnima. There was 
similarly introduced a new festival in honour of the Spring 
under the name of Kamadahana Paurnima on the Full 
Moon Day of Phalguna. 


JAIMINI AND HIS SUCCESSORS. 


Jaimini’s position among writers on Astrology. 


94, The services of Jaimini in the field of Astrology 
were similar to those of Kautilya in the field of Law 
and Politics, or of Kapila in Metaphysics or of Kanada 
in Physics, all of whom developed their systems or 
Sastras on a solid natural basis devoid of any religions 
bias. ‘The great philosopher, Saikaracarya can also be said 
to have rendered the same kind of service in the field of 
Philosophy. ‘The astrologers, who followed Jaimini, put 
forth in details what Jaimini stated briefly, yet categorically, 
in his Sutras. However, as a result of the strong religious 
revival in India in the early centuries of the Christian Era, 
and the strong hold the religion had on the minds of the 
cultured people of those days, very few scholars could 

afford to remain uninfluenced by religious bias. Naturally 
the successors of Jaimini had to introduce the orthodox 
ideas and beliefs in astrology which Jaimini had scrupulously 
set aside. Thus, Yavana or Minaraja whose treatise 





Introduction 85 
appeai's to have been written to set forth specifically the 
development of Indian Astrological thought in Tonia and 
other countries, presented the views of Jaimini and the 
Vrddhas in minute details and also added a few chapters 
giving an idea of the genuine old astrological thought which 
had a religious bias. _ 


Brhadyavanajataka of Minaraja. 


95. The Brhad-Yavana-jataka, named also Vrddha- 
yavana-jataka or Minarajajataka, as available to-day in 
Manuscripts, gives 70 chapters, some in prose and some -in 
verse generally in upajati metre, consisting of about 5000 
and odd verses, although inside the book the contents are 
described to be about 8000 glokas. The work discusses 
almost all topics of Jaimini, giving in details what Jaimini 
has given briefly in his sutra style. The method followed by 
the author in the treatise is descriptive, and analytical at the 
same time. He has given the description, the nature and 
the disposition of all the seven planets: He has not men- 
tioned Rahu and Ketu at all. In connection with 
aspects, he has entered into minute details and has given 
separately the results from each of the twelve houses, occu- 
pied by each of the seven planets aspected by any one or 
more of the other planets. He has devoted nearly 44 out 
of the 70 chapters of his treatise to the analytical presenta- 
tation of the topics given by Jaimini which he has exhausti- 

vely considered presenting all possible cases by permutations 
and combinations. In respect of Ayurdaya ( span of life ) 
and Dasas (periods in life) he has not.given the variety of 
views put forward by Jaimini. He has given his views on 
these two topics, only in four chapters, whereas Jaimini has 
devoted nearly a quarter of his treatise of four Adhyayas 
to their-discussion. Minaraja does not attach much impor 


86 Tpadeba Sutra, 


tance to the Karakagraha, Rasipada and Upapada which, 
according to Jaimini, are of supreme importance in deter- 
mining the career, wealth and wife of the native. 


New topics introduced in the Brhad yavana-jataka 


96. The topics of Astakavarga, Adhana, Sutika, 
Sadvarga and Rasmi are introduced by Minaraja for the 
first time in the development of the Science of Astrology. 
Kalyanavarma has observed in. his Saravali that the credit 
of propounding the doctrine of Astakavarga goes to Mina- 
raja. (See Saravali Ch. 52 St.1). There is a lone 
chapter (chapter 59) devoted by Minaraja to the 
discussion of the application of the several astrological 
results to women. In addition to the several purely astro- 
logical topics discussed fully by him, Minaraja has given 
room at the end of his treatise to the discussion of 
dreams, omens and the like (see chapters 64-70 ys 
The available manuscripts of the work close the first part 
of the work at the end of the 54th chapter, and give 
‘only 16 chapters of the second part. The second 
part which introduces the discussion of the non-astro- 
logical topics such as dreams, omens and the like, is compa- 
ratively not so important as the first. If it be presumed: that 
many of the last chapters of the treatise which had little 
astrological importance have been lost in course of time, a 
sort of explanation could be found out for the abrupt 
closure of the book, as also for the assertion that Minaraja’s 
work consisted of $000 slokas. 

Minaraja ( King Menander ? ) the author of the 
Brhadyavanjataka 
97. The Brhadyavana-jataka could be looked upon as 


an epoch-making book of the mediaeval period of Tndian 


Introduction 87 


Astrology, and it can rightly be considered as the foundation 
of the Modern: European Astrology and American Astrology 
which are developed from the old Yavana (Jonian) Astrology- 
The authorship of the work is attributed to Minaraja, about 
whom no information is available inside the book, or 
elsewhere in other books on Astrology. As the book, which 
expounds the doctrines of Jaimini and the Vrddhas (Ancient 
Astrologers), is named ‘Brhad-yavana-jataka’ or ‘ Vrddha- 
yavana-jataka’, presumably it was written by some 
reputed Indian scholar patronized by King Minaraja, or by 
Minaraja himself. The word Minaraja appears to be the 
same as Minendra, and it can well be presumed that, 
the Yavana ( Ionian ) King Menander was the writer 
or the patron of the book after whom it was named 
Yavanajataka or Minaraja-jataka. The fact, that King 
Menander took a lively interest in Indian culture, can 
be attested to by the famous Pali book ‘ Milinda-pattha 

(questions of King Milinda) named after him. 
The date of King Menander (about 150 B. C.) 
also. well agrees with the date which can be assigned 


to the work on the strength of internal and external 
evidences, 


Yavanajataka of Sphujidhvaja. 


98. There is a work named ‘ Yavanajataka ’ written 
by King Sphujidhvaja which is quite similar to the Brahad- 
yavanajataka of Minaraja. This work also is not published as 
yet, and is available only in Manuscripts. The Manuscript 
in Nepal consists of 2800 slokas. The stanzas at the 
beginning in the indravajra metre which describe the limbs 
of Time are found in both the works, the Yavanajataka and 
the Brhadyavanajataka, and it is difficult to say which of 





88 Upadesa Sutra 


the two works gives the original passage,’ It appears, 
however, that the work of Minaraja is an earlier one, as it 
is more comprehensive, on which King Sphujidhvaja has 
presumably based his work. Sphujidhvaja has also observed 
in his introduction that King Yavanesvara composed a 
work on Hora Sastra of which his work is onlya rendering 
in the indravajra metre. This Yavanesvara is very likely 
the same as Minaraja, the author of the Brhadyavanajataka. 
There is another work of the period named ‘ Candrabha- 
ranahora ’ existing in Manuscript form in Nepal of which 
Yavanacarya is mentioned as the author. Although the 
manuscript is incomplete, with many -pages at the beginn- 
ing and end missing, it has got ‘ Chandrabharanahora ’ as 
its name and Yavanacarya as the author’s name mentioned 
at the end of each chapter. On account of the close simi- 
larity of the work with the Brhadyavanajataka, the work is 
very likely to be an abridgment of Minaraja’s work. 


Ancient Indian Astrology, the source of Ionian Astrology. 


99. The existence of these three works on Astrology 
proves beyond. doubt that some centuries about 
the beginning of the Christian Era, Yavana ( Greek ) 
and Indian scholars wrote learned treatises in 
Sanskrit on Astrology. The remarks made in their 
introductory stanzas by King Sphujidhvaja and 
Minaraja make it also clear that the Ionians ( Greeks ) 





1. Cf. are: ay Agee: sees Rai mga: qu: 1 
Ponape eee ANRA MATTE: Ny 


* * * * 

~ ¥ ~ S 98 _ An 
BS @ AiagaAAUL Fsea Tal SAA aA | 
W qoagdigudidamddieagrgqaitar: 44 1 


IITA SHAT 9 
aq BEANE 9, 


[Introduction 89 


Wwere'not the founders of this Science ,of Astrology. The 
Science existed in India long before and the Ionians 
( yavanas:) merely developed it systematically. Thus, Mina- 
raja observes that the Ancient Sage imparted instructions 
in Astrology to Maya who wrote an extensive work consist:~ 
ing of one lac of stanzas of which he ( Minaraja ) has given 
a small summary in 8000 stanzas *. Sphujidhvaja similarly 
observes that Narayana instructed the Asvins in this 
Science of Astrology. and Yavanesgvata, by favour of the 
Asvins, composed a systematic treatise:of which his (Sphuji- 
dhvaja’s) work is only a rendering in the indravajra 
metre 2 


Brhajjataka of Varahamihira 


100. The next renowned writer on Astrology was 
Varahamihira. the gem of Indian Genius, who could rightly 
be looked upon as the patriarch of Indian Astrology. He 
was a profound scholar of Astronomy also. He wrote one 
authoritative book on each of the three branches of Jyotisa 
Sastra. He made a thorough study of all Siddhanta works 
written before him and incorporated five of the most import- 
ant Siddhanta books in his ‘ Pafica-siddhantika ’. Barring 
the Vedanga Jyotisa, the Paficasiddhantika can be looked 
upon as the oldest authoritative book on Indian Astro- 
nomy. His Secorid book‘ Brhatsarhita’ is a masterly work 
on Medini Jyotisa or Cosmic Astrology. His third work 











1. CE agwary qdaeg set Bt wetted mar | 
a Hite Poot aga AR were 1 
TATAMIAG oTEqIA g - 
2. Cf. eq at Pragaeataene aa mz 1 
weer ae aT Te a ERITARE Far n 


TAMAS Te 9 
12 


90 Upadesa Sutra 


* Brhajjataka ’ on the third branch of Jyotisa— ip, j 
branch—is well known all over the country, h 
sented in this book in a systematic manner bri, 48 pre- 
forcibly, all the astrological ideas in twenty eight” 
chapters. Although, on account of its brevit small 
book presents difficulties for the right Unders.” the 
of the meaning of some passages, the Teay 4 
encyclopedic commentary of Utpala Bhatta 4. 2nd 


Mahabhasya intended by Patanjali is excellently YSkarana 
by Kaiyata in his Pradipa. “served — 


Position of Brhajjataka in the field of Astrology 


101. Varahamihira has devoted 14 out of the 98 
ters of his treatise to the topics treated by Jaimin; chap- 
chapters he has devoted to the discussion of the .. even 


janma, Arista, Candraragisila, Nastajataka, i. "Yoni- 
etc. The Brhajjatake of Varahamihira has become Majiva 
dard work on Astrology on account of its master] * stan- 
tion, with a stamp of authority put upon it by ¢ . Senta: 
genius of the author, who was looked upon as an Mighty 
nation of the Sun by posterity. The book, in f ncaa: 
garded asa final word on Astrology and all the Wor 
ten after it have got the nature of explanatory comm 8 Writ- 
or handy sketches, presenting nothing more than the ties: 
propounded by him. © Views 


Saravali of Kalyanavarman 


102. The only scholar of Astrology who 
mentioned as having done something important jy, a be 
Relq 


¢ 
Introduction 91 


of Astrology after Varahamihira, is Kalyanavarma, the 
author of Saravali. The great merit of Saravali is the 
reinstatement in astrology of such topics of Yavanajataka 
as were ignored by Varahamihira.' The work, as it is 
available to-day, consists of 54 chapters; and it is 
possible from the abrupt closure of the book to say that 
« few chapters at the end after the 54th, have been 
lost in course of time, as, possibly they dealt with dreams, 
Omens and the like. Kalyanavarma lived in the sixth or 
the seventh century A. D. just a couple of centuries after 
Varahamihira. It is rather strange that no commentary 
literature is available on this work. Possibly, Varahamihira’s 
Brha}jjataka, immediately after it was written, achieved, 
established and maintained such an enviable position, that 
people did not like to cast even a glance at any other book 
on astrology. The extreme simplicity of expression and 
lucidity of style of Kalyanavarman constituted perhaps 
another reason why no commentary was written upon it. 
Kalyanavarman has closely followed upon the footsteps 
of Varahamihira, and has discussed all his topics, As 
Kalyanavarman has stated in. his work, he has given the 
views of Yavana, Manittha, Kanaka, Devatrata and other 
writers in addition to the views of Varahamihira. 


Brhatparaégari 


given 
Nothing can be 
1. Cf, fteaari aR: daiea TAA Tree 


Het CF Reaeat aqaaigetanaeg: | 
Teor THAT a at MSA 4 
ARSI-aeATY 4 a 





99 Upadesa Sutra 


said with definiteness about the author, or his date. The 
author appears to have been comparatively a modern one 
who lived a few centuries after Kalyanavarman. There is 
nothing very striking in the work. The author simply has 
made a collection of such topics, as, in his opinion, could be 
of use to a practising astrologer. He has divided his work 
into two books, the first consisting of eighty chapters and the 
second of twenty chapters as mentioned by him. The book ° 
is, in short, not a small handbook, but a bulky veference 
book to astrologers discussing almost all topics of Jaimini, 
Minaraja and Varahamihira. He has given no room to 
the discussion of topics like dreams, omens and the like 
which are really foreign to astrology. A critical inspection 
of the contents of the book clearly shows that the compiler 
has richly qnoted from Jaimini, has paid all due respect to 
Varahamihira and ignored the non-astrological topics of 
Yavana writers. (See Table No 2 at the end. ) 


The relative position of Jaimini Sitras, Brhadyavanajataka 
and Brhajjataka 


104. ‘The services of Jaiminisutra, Brhadyavanajataka 
and Brhajjataka in the field of Astrology are, in a way, 
comparable to the services of Panini’s Sutras, Katyayana’s 
Vartikas and Patafijali’s Mahabhasya in the field of Sans. 
krit Vyakarana. Subsequent researches from time to time 
have introduced considerable accuracy in astronomical cal 
culations and added considerably to the fund of knowledg, 
of astronomical topics ; but, with respect to Astrology, the 
fundamental principles laid down by the ‘three Savants and 
the statements, made by them, have become a final word, 
A glance at the Table at the end, giving a critical analysis of 
the contents of the five important works on Astrology— 
Jaiministitras, Brihadyavanajataka, Brihajjataka, Sarayali 


Iniroduction 93 


and Brihatparasari,—is expected to help the reader in his 
study of the development of the Science of Astrology in 


India, in all its important branches and topics. 
CASTING OF HOROSCOPES 


Application of Jaimini’s rules 


103. The Science of Astrology, as stated above, is 
based upon the belief that the planets and stars do exert an 
influence on the animate as also the inanimate nature, just 
as all the orthodox systems-of philosophy in India are based 
upon the fundamental assumption that there is an entity like 
the sow. When Astrology has been admitted asa Sastra 
then only the question comes for investigation as to what 
kind of rules can be framed, how they can be framed, and 
how far they can be correct and possible to be verified. A 
few lines here will not be out of place to elucidate the appli- 
cation of the doctrines of Jaimini and see how far the results 
are borne out by the actual finds of events and occurrences. 


Calculation of the Divisions of the Zodiac according to Jaimini 


106. It is evident from what is given‘above, that Jai- 
mini has counted the divisions of the Zodiac serially from 
the point of the Vernal equinox. He has divided the Zodiac 
into 12 equal parts and referred to them as First, Second 

Third and so on, upto the Twelfth. The point of the Verna] 
equinox is evidently not a fixed one receding as it does one 
degree in every 71.7 years approximately. In the days of 
Jaimini it almost coincided with the first point of the Mesa- 
Ragi, from which place it has upto this time receded about 
23 degrees, It lies to-day almost at the end of the first 
quarter of the Mina Rasi. It is this point of the Vernal 
Equinox that is called the First Point of Aries in English 


94 Upadesa Sutra 

books on Astrology, and the twelve signs Aries, ac 
Gemini etc. are counted from it. The Rasis, Mesa, Vrsabha, 
Mithuna etc. in the Indian books on Astrology are fixed 
divisions in the sky made up of 30° each, commencing from 
the first point of the Asvini constellation abe, as shown 
in para 85 above, is situated at a distance of 120 degrees 
to the east of the twin stars of the tail of Mula, which is the 
traditional starting point of the Naksatra circle fixed by the 
Vedic Seers who made the first mention of the 27 Naksatras 
of the Zodiac. 


Specific features of Jaimini’s Calculation 


107. As the 12 divisions of the sky, beginning with the 
Vernal Equinox coincided with the twelve Rasis Mesa, 
Vrsabha ete. at the time of Jaimini, the results given by him 
due to birth in the different zodiacal divisions in Sutras ‘‘paiica 
musikamarjarah” etc. (I. ii. 2 to I. ii. 13) are quite accord- 
ing to the nature and figure of the Ragis, and at present also 
those results should be understood in the same way i.e. with 
reference to the Rasis Mesa, Vrsabha etc. beginning with the 
Asvini constellation. However, as the 12 Raéi divisions do 
not coincide at present with the 12 divisions beginning from 
the point of the Vernal Equinox, a discretion has to be used 
in interpreting properly the Siitras of Jaimini referring to the 
12 Zodiacal divisions, and in all cases except those in Sutrag 
(L. ii. 2 to 13) referred to above, the 12 divisions beginning 
with the point of the Vernal Equinox at present should be 

_ taken, as is evident from the way in which Jaimini has defined 
the aspects or decided the significatory planets. In short, 
except in Sutras (I. ii. 2-13) Jaimini follows the Sdyana 
method, and, verily, it is for this reason that he has not 
mentioned the various divisions by names Mesa, Vrsabha etc., 
but has cited them merely as First, Second, Third and $0 On: 





K 
Introduction 95 


Explanation of the Twelve Houses or Bhavas 


108. For the scrutiny of horoscopes based upon the 
Karaka-graha, Lagnapada and Upapada, Jaimini has taken 
the zodiacal division of the Karaka-graha, Lagnapada and 
Upapada respectively as the leading division and, consider- 
ing itas the first house, or prathama bhava, he has taken 
the succeeding divisions as the second house (dvitiya bhava); 
third house (trfiya bhava), and so on, for the consideration of 
results based upon them. This first house, or prathama bhava 
was taken to commence from the first degree of the zodiacal 
division, corresponding to the particular bhava, and not from 
the specific degree of the Karaka graha or the exact degreeof 
the zodiacal division on the horizon at the time of birth. So 
also, full divisions of 30 degrees each were taken for reading 
the horoscopes based upon the Lagna, Karaka, Pada and 
Upapada and not minor subdivisions such as the ninth part 
(navamarnsa) and the like. The word ‘syarnga’ in the 
governing rule “‘atha svarhgo grahanam ” (I. ii. 1) does not 
refer to the ninth division as the commentator has taken it, 
The word means ‘his own portion’ i. e. the portion of the 
zodiac occupied by the Significatory Planet. Had Jairnini 
meant by ‘syarhga’ the ninth part or ‘navamaiiga’, he 
would have certainly put the latter word, especially with 
a view to leave aside the possibility of other sub-divisions 
being taken such as the thirds, the fifths, and the like, which 
can also be understood from the word ‘svarhga’, Besides, 
the word ‘navarhga’ and not ‘navamarnga’, occurs in Siitras 
“prathame tadadirnavarhsah” and others (II. iii, 1, IL is, 
11, and II. i. 15, 17, 18 ); and, the word means there the 
portion of the individual planet out of the nine planets, and 
it refers to the Dasa of the planet or ‘graha’ there, as different 
from the dasa of the Rasi. (See commentary on 

Sutra IL. ii. 1), 





96 Upadesa Sistra 


Illustration of Jaimini’s dicta 


109. To illustrate the various dicta of Jaimini, the 
case of the writer himself can be taken below as an illustra - 
tion for purposes of investigation and scrutiny. While 
making this investigation, however, it is necessary to bear in 
mind the difference between the method of Jaimini and the 
Nirayana method generally followed at present. As already 
observed above, the Vernal Equinox at the time of Jaimini 
coincided withthe first point of Asvini, and, as a consequence, 
the twelve equal divisions of the Ecliptic circle from the 
Vernal equinox exactly coincided with the twelve Rasi divi- 
sions commencing from the first point of Mesa. The ends 
of the four Rasi triads then coincided with the points of the 
two Solstices and the two Equinoxes; and, hence, the four Ragi 
triads were called the four padas or footsteps of the ladder 
of the Rasis. In order to be consistent with Jaimini’s prin- 
ciples, the twelve divisions designated by him as One, Two 
etc. and not as Mesa, Vrsabha ete., as also the four-padas, 
have to be taken as commencing from the point of the 
Vernal Equinox and not from the first point of Asvini 
Naksatra. To distinguish these 12 divisions which are 
the same as Sayana Rasis from the | 2 Nirayana Rasis Mesa, 
Vrsabha etc., these divisions could be named as Jaimini has 
done, divisions One, Two, Three etc., while the word Rasi, 
or sign could be reserved for the Rasis, Mesa, Vrsabha and 
so on, 


Preparation of different Kinds of horoscopes 


1i0. The birth of the writer Occurred at 3-20 A, M. 
after the midnight of the seventh of August 1890 
(Sravana krsna astami, Salivahana year 1812) at Satara. The 
Janmalagna or the Ascendant Sign according to the 
Nirayana system is Mithuna 5 degrees, The Position of the 





Introduction 


planets according to the Nirayana system can be stated 
thus: The Sun is in Karka 23°, the Moon in Mesa 24 4 
Mars in Vrscika 18°, Mercury in Simha 8°, Jupiter in 
Makara 9°, Venus in Kanya 6°, Saturn in Simha 14°, Rahu 
in Vrsabha 28°, and Ketu in Vrscika 28°, According 
to Jaimini’s method, however the Lagna is 27° in 
Division No. III; the Sun is at 16° in No. V ; the Moon at 
17° in No. II; Mars at 11°in No. IX; Mercury at 1° in No. VJ; 
Jupiter at 2° in No. XI; Venus at 29° in No. VI; Saturn at 
7 in No. VI; Rahu at 21° in No. Ill and Ketu at 21° in 
No. IX. The Lagna-Kundali, the Karaka-Kundali, the 
Pada Kundali and the Upapada Kundali can be prepared 
with the details given above, and submitted to the test 
of scrutinizing the results. The Kundalis stand as follows: 


Janma Lagna Kundali. Karaka Kundali 
Janma Lagna 27° in Division III. Atma Karaka—Venus (Sukra), 














Pada-Kundali Upapada:Kundali 
Pada- Lagna Division III Upapada-Lagna Division No. X, 









Upadeia Siitra 
Scrutiny of the Lagna Kundalj 


111. The Lagna-Kundali is to be considered for defin- 
ing the Argalas or alliances of planets, for stating the Dagas, 
for defining aspects, as also for judging the Rajayoga and 
other Yogas. In the present case, the Sun has Argala or 
alliance‘with Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Mars, Ketu and Rahu; 
the Moon with Rahu, Mercury, Venus and Saturn; 
Mars hasan alliance with the Sun; Mercury, Venus and Saturn 
have analliauce with the Moon, Mars and Ketu; Jupiter 
has an alliance with the Moon and Rahu; and lastly, Rahu 
has an alliance with the Sun, the Moon and Jupiter, and 
Ketu with Mercury, Venus, Saturn and the Sun. The Daas 
(Caraparyaya-dasas) can be stated as follows:—Division III 
—3 years; Division [I—4 years ; Division I—8 years ; 
Division XII—1 year; Division XI—3 years; Division X 
—4 years; Division IX—2 years; Division VIII—1 year; 
Division VII—11 years; Division VI—12 years ; Division 
V—12 years and lastly, Division IV—2 years. The dasas 
proceed in the reverse order asthe ninth from the ascendant 
is in an even Pada. Venus is the Atmakaraka planet, the 
Ninth is the Pada Lagnaand the Tenth is the Upapada Lagna. 


112. If the Atma-Karaka Kundali were considered, 
_ then by virtue of the presence of Venus in the first division, 
the person shouldbe a Government servant with. powerful 
“sense-oF gans 6, while by virtue, of Mercury there he should be 
a business man, skigled in Arts and very practical *. The 
presence of Saturn there shows that he should follow a well- 
known profession 7. By virtue of the presence of Mars and 
_Ketu in the fourth house, he should live in his own building 
of bricks and mortar *. By virtue of the Moon in the 
ninth house, he should be devoted to religion, truth and 
preceptor “. By the presence of the Sun in the twelfth 


Introduction 99 


house he should be devoted to S’iva”. He is likely to suffer 
from pimples and boils as Mars occupies the fourth house”. 

y the presence of Ketu in the fourth house, he should 
be a calculator and an astronomer “'. By the presence of 
Venus® and Mercury in the first house, he should be a 
writer of few books 31, although a poet, a speaker and fond 
of rhetorics * ; by the presence of Saturn there, however, he 
should make no mark in meetings *. He should be a 
Mimarhsaka by the presence of Mercury in the first house. *”. 
_ _ For ready:reference specific Sutras consulted for read- 
ing the horoscopes above, as also the following ones are 
quoted in the foot note below. 





Note: 1 aa} useriee ( Lii.14). 2 Graunataltt Parsitt 
4 (Lii15 ). 3 agar Seagd asia AA ( Lisi ). 4 artisea- 
aaa UIT saaeagA TA (Lii17.). 5 eats: aeReq 
Si ( Lii.18 ). 6 usar erie: waitgard a ( 1ii-19 ). 7 sfg- 
wrisiiat wt (Lii20.) 8 Re ga gaze ar aezaq (L389). 9 we 
ee waa: (11.40). 10 wauaeai Rarmeq ( Lii.44 ). 1 ea%gear 
Fee (141.45). 12 geo aaq (Lii46 ). 13 ant wor ( Lii- 
47). 14 wR quediag adhe: wand aeH ( Lii48 ). 15 aequt 
aus ( 1ii.49 ). 16 Saar ( greats) share: (Lii.54). 17 a ez. 
Tea Fel (L457 ). 18 eA TF qe (Lii64 ). 199% aan 
(141.65 ). 20 3 9 waaie:( Lii.68 ). 213381 Yaeaq (-Lii.69 ). 
22 vasqrai AT vik: (Lii.72 ). 23 aeRT Ma (Lii.73 ). 24 ga 
aeat Feat ( Lii-76 ), 25 geo arate ( Lii.77 ).26 Baar aay 
erg 4 ( Lii.79 ). 27 gaia Reane ( Lii.93 ). 28 SIU aes ash 
( 1ii.97 ).” 29 maitsergyeat aaeq (151.102). 30 WaT 
fragry ( 141.103 ). 31 gaa aaa ( Lii104 ), 32 YIN Bahay 
wreaga ( 1ii.105 ). 33 geo wig aap ( Lii106 ). 344 
aval (Tii-107 ), 35 faftier Garret Feaqrate (14-108 ). 36 
wastes aft ( Lii-109. ) 37 gaa Hintaw: ( Lillo.) 38 @aa 
Hane: ( Lil 11 ).39 ago alevine: aad ateeq (Li: 
112). 40 Won aqragt aaa (1ii-113). 4 ST alta: 
(Lii-114). 42 aedaedq angie: (14115). 43 apa aay 
( Lii-116 ). 


100 Upadesa Stitra 


113. . An inspection of the Pada Kundali can show 
that although there is no planet in the eleventh house, still, 
by the aspect of the Sun, the Moon and Jupiter there, he 
should be a well-to-do person, and the income should acerue 
in the rightful way—mostly by means of learning and 
scholarship. He should’ be rich, by virtue of the 
Pada of the seventh house from the Lagna-pada being 
in the Kendra of the Pada. So also, there should 
be good relations between the husband and the wife. A 
scrutiny of the Upapada Kundali would show that by the 

" presence of Jupiter in the second house he should have a 

_charming wife. If the methods of calculating the duration 
of life, given by Jaimini, are considered, then, by virtue of 
the lords of the first house and the eighth house being both 
in ‘dvisvabhava’ or Mutable sign he should have a middling 
span of life; so also, by the presence of Saturn in a mutable 
sign and Moon in a fixed sign he should have a long life ; 
similarly, by virtue of the ascendant sign being mutable and 
the ‘hora’ sion a fixed one (sthira), he should also be a 
longlived person, the hora sign being the second. 


114, A few more horoscopes of well-known persons 
can be discussed below to show how far the dicta of 
Jaimini apply to their cases. The horoscope based upon 
the significatory planet of a well-known person born on 
13-11-1873 at about 12-45 Noon ( who does not desire 
to have his name mentioned. here) can be considered as 
follows according to Jaimini’s dicta : Jupiter is the 
significatory planet of self or Atmakaraka. The pre- 
sence of Jupiter in the first house shows the man to be 
a very learned person® possessed of special scholarship in 
the old learning of the ancestors“. The presence of the 
Moon there shows that he would have a life of pleasures and 
enjoyment and that he would live by dint of his learning 


Introduction 101 


and seholarship?. The tenth house has no planet, but the 
aspect of Mercury thereon shows that he would follow a 
Jamous profession 8, The aspect of three benefic planets on 
Atma Kiraka-Kundali the tenth would indicate 
: his steady character as also 
skill in arbitration’. The 
presence of Mercury in the 
fourth house with the 
Moon and Jupiter aspect- 
ing him, would show his 
residence in a palatial 
a niasiapatienatamaas natoae amt Duilding made of wood ?. 
The presence of Rahu in the ninth, aspected by two 
malefics, Mars and Saturn, as also by Venus who is 
powerful in his own house, would show that he would 
not bea man devoted to religious rites and practices 15 
although he would follow the principles of religion“. The 
aspect of the Moon and Jupiter on the seventh house 
Vee. Each cr mene ee 
: ‘ planets, the Sun and 
Ketu, in the third house indicate his courage and boldness 8, 
The presence of malefics in both the trines shows his likin 
Jor mystic sciences. The presence of the Moon and J titer 
in the first shows that he would be a writer of books of 
very high order” although the presence of Mars and Re 
in the fifth would indicate that the writing will not be on 
the orthodox sciences, but it would be mainly on law and 
politics *. The presence of Mars in the fifth house would 
sar his proficiency in Law and shall in logical argumenta- 
tion™ ; while the presence of Jupiter would show that he 
would be a follower of traditions”. The presence of Venug 
in the second house which is his own, shows that he would 
be an orator of a high order ®, The presence of two malefic 








* 409 ” Upadeba Sutra 


: planets in the first house of the Upapada Kundali may indi- 
cate the loss of or trouble to wife. 


115. Another horoscope of a promising young man born 
on 6-2-1917 at 6-35,r. m. may be taken for scrutiny: Jupiter 
is the significatory planet, by whose presence in the first 
house the person is expect- 
ed to be a scholar and 
devoted to learning *. By 
the presence of Mercury 
in the 10th house he would 
live by a famous profession 
and also steady in his 
character and activities 
due tothe presence of 
two benefic planets there’, 
although by presence of Rahu he may be impatient at 
times. The presence of Saturnand Ketu in the fourth 
house indicate his residence in a house of bricks and 
stones, By the presence of Ketuin the fourth house, 
he would be a calculator and a good Mathematician". By 
virtue of the presence of Jupiter and the Moon in the first 
and the fifth houses he would bea scholar and a writer 3 put 
not an orator“. He would possess a scholarship in gram- 
mar, traditional lores *, philosophy, mystic sciences, litera- 
ture and Music too“. The presence of Jupiter in the first 
shows his inclination to follow the family traditions ”. 


Karaka-Kundali, : 





116. Swami Ramkrishna Paramahamsa: Birth-date: 
20-2-1835 at about 8-30 a.m. Position of the planets at 
the time of birth: The Sun 1° in XII. The Moon 5° in XII; 
Mars 6° in III; Mercury 22° in XII ; Jupitor 2° in I; Venus 
17° in I; Saturn 26° in VI; Rahu 12°in IV. In the first 
place, the Janmalagna being the very twelfth, well nigh 





Introduction 103 


. indicate his being a great preacher of Religion and an ancho- 
rite too. The presence of two benefic planets Mercury and 
the Moon there, as also that of the Sun in his ascendant 

house, strengthens the 

effects of Lagna. IE the 

Karaka-Kundali be inspe- 

cted, it would be seen that 

; Saturn is the significatory 

planet and his presence in 

the first house shows the 

life of a man living by a 

famous profession’. The 

presence of two auspicious 

planets in the seventh house shows that’ he would have a 

charming wife’, The presence of Saturn in the first house 

would indicate that he would not make his mark in an 
assembly *, while that of Ketu in the fifth house would 

indicate his proficiency in Mathematics “1, 








117. Justice M. G. Ranade. Birth-date 18—9- 1842 
at 7 p.m. The Sun is the significatory Planet. The presence 
of the Sun in the first house, shows his occupation of a high 
office under Government. The presence of Venus there 
shows his being a loyal politician, as also his resourcefulness 
and command over the senses ¢ Although there is no 
planet in the tenth, still the aspect of a number of benefic 
planets there shows his steadiness of mind and temperament 
as also skill in settling disputes °. The aspect of Rahu and 
Saturn on the fourth house shows his residence in a stone 
building. ® while that of Jupiter shows his Occupation of 
a wooden structure ” also. The aspect of Venus on the ninth 
shows his' devotion to religion, truthfulness, preceptor and 
elderly persons, although the aspect of : the Sun there 
may indicate some element of distrust‘, The aspect 





» 104 Upadesa Stutra 


of- Jupiter. on the seventh indicates an_ intelligent 
charming wife” although the aspect of Saturn there 
may show her bad health and the aspect of Mars may 
Atmakaraka-Kundali. indicate even a loss of 
wife. The presence of the 
malefic planet Mars in the 
third house shows his in- 
trepid nature, full of 
courage and_ boldness’. 
| The presence of Jupiter in 
the twelfth house shows 
his religiousness ”; -the 
presence of Saturn and 
Rabu also there may show that he could not be a devout 
religionist. The presence of the Moon in the fifth shows 
that he would be a reputed writer ; the presence of V 
however, in the first would show that he could not 
voluminous writer although he would be 
andan orator of a high order”. The 
of the Moon in the fifth house shows also his study 
of metaphysics and poetry ®, while the presence of the 
Sun shows his deep interest in philosophy and Music. If 
the Padakundali were -considered, the occupation of the 
eleventh house by a planet, and that too by Mars of his own 
house, shows that he could be very rich. The absence of 
any planet in the twelfth shows that he would not be a 
spendthrift although the aspect of planets like Ketu, Rahu 
and Saturn there would show that he would be careless in 
spending and would spend on brothers, and King’s taxes, 
-The application of the methods of determining life shows 
that he would not be endowed with along life beyond 
64 years, 





enus, 
be a 
a critic 
presence 


tatroduotion 105 


118. Lokamanya Bal Gangadhar Tilak : Birth date 
23-7-1856 at about 7 A, M- Mars is the significatory 
planet. The presence of 
Mars in the first house 
would indicate his spirited 
fiery nature*, while the 
presence of Ketu there 
would betray his being a 
calculator and an astute 


Atmakaraka-Kundali, 


politician. The presence 





of Mercury in the tenth 
house shows that he would 
live by a well-known profession®. The aspect of the 
Sun and Venus on the fourth house shows his re- 
sidence in a comfortable thatched house%. The presence 
of the Moon and Jupiter in the seventh shows that 
he would have a devoted wife of an excellent nature?”, 
The presence of Mars in the first house shows that he 
would be a skilled lawyer with a remarkable power 
of argumentation”, while the presence of Ketu there 
would show his being an excellent Mathematician". The 
presence of two planets—the Sun and Venus—in the 
eleventh shows that he would sufficiently be a man 
of means. 


119. Pandit Madana Mohana Malaviya: Birth date 
25-12-1861. Margasirsa Krshna 8 at 1p... Jupiter is 
the Significatory Planet. Position of planets at the 
time of birth. The Sun at 2° in X; the Moon 
at 8° in VII; Mars at 21° in VII; Mereury at 
23° in IX; Jupiter at :26° in VI; Venus at 95° 
in XI; Saturn at 21° in VI; Rahn at 4° in 

4 


106 Upadesa Sutra 

XK; Lagna at 24° in 1; Pada: Division IIt ; Upa- 
pada’: Division mits Jupiter who is the signi 
ficatory planet is expected 
to make the person much 


Atmakéraka-Kundali 
devoted to religious rites 


and possessed of Vedic 
Scholarship *. The» pre- 
sence of Saturn in the 


first indicates his living a 





very famous life of glory 
and repute 7, The presence 
of Mars in the third, which happens to be his own 
‘house, shows the undaunted and spirited nature of the 
person who would be sticking to his own principles and 
fighting for them™ with invincible logic ®. The 
aspect of Mercury on the tenth shows the firmness of his 
character and his powers of arbitration’. The presence 
of Jupiter in the first with the Sun in the fifth shows 
his deep study of the various branches of learning 
especially’ of philosophy with eminent powers of writing ®, 
Tupiter: also makes him an- honest follower of the:tradition 
of his ancestors ” The presence of a malefic both in the 
third and. the naar shows a chance of imprisonment 
which i is to be on account of political considerations although 
not giving ‘much trouble on account of Ketu. there, 





Introduction 107 


120, His Highness Sayajirao Gaekwar : Birth date 
11-12 March 1863. Phalguna Krisna sixth at 2 a.M, 
Karaka Graha: Jupiter. 
“Atmakaraka-Kundali Position. of the planets 
= at the hour of birth :— 
The Sun in 20° in XII; 
the Moon at 8° in IX; 
Mars at 22° in IX; 
Jupiter at 26° in VII; 
Venus at:11° in I; Saturn 
at2° in VII; Rahu at 
10 in IX; Lagna 29° 
degrees in IX. Jupiter is the Significatory Planet indicating 
a holy religious life’, no doubt, spoiled to a certain extent by 
the company of Saturn. The presence of Saturn in the first 
there shows a life of fame and glory’. The presence of 
Jupiter there shows his vast erudition? characterized by 
skill and practical wisdom due to the presence of Mercury in 
the fifth *. The presence of Saturn in the first- goes against 
his making a mark. in assemblies®, The presence of 
Venus in the seventh shows the company ofan able wife, 
although conjugal. relations are likely to be spoiled 
due to the presence of Saturn in the first??. The presence 
of two malefics in the ninth will not- allow him to be 
devoted to religious activities *"**. The presence of Mars 
“in the third shows his fiery and spirited nature possessed 
of intrepidity of character’. The presence ‘of Malefics 
both in the third and the sixth shows a kind of Rajayooa 
raising him unexpectedly to a high position *, 











108 Upittesa Stitra 
121. Partdit M. M, ‘Vasudev ‘Shastri Abhyankar : 
Birthdate 448-1863° Adhikd Sravana Krena—6th 


at 8-8 pv. m. Venus 


Karka-Kundli 


is the — significatory 
Planet. Position of the 
various Planets -at the 
time of birth: |The Sun 
at 11° in V; the Moon 
at 18° inT; Mars at 1°in 
VI; Mercury at 9° in V ; 
Jupiter at 24° in VII; 
Venus at 26° in VI; 
Saturn at 6° in VII; Rahu at 4°in IX; Lagna at 2° in 
XII. Venus is the significatory planet showing perfect 
loyalty of the person to the state’ The presence of 


‘Venus in the first house shows that the person is chara- 











cterized by a versatile genius, self satisfied, and expected 
to live by dint of learning and scholarship *, The presence 
of Jupiter in the second house indicates his sound scholar- 
ship, especially in the orthodox learning and proficiency in 
many lores 8, Tt also shows considerable powers of pen 3, 


the books produced being mainly on Vedas,’ philosophy and 


sound logical arguments *, 
Jupiter indicates his following the tradition of his 


- ancestors“. The presence of the Sun and Mercury in the 


Grammar chatacterized by 


twelfth makes him devoted to Siva” ang :Vishan 
? 
leading a pious life, 


Introduction 109 


122. Mahatma Gandhi the inspection of the 
horoscope of the significatory planet in the case 
of Mahatma Gandhi shows a few features of his life in 

Ktma-Karaka Kupdali a remarkably faithful 
manner: The presence 
of the Moon in the first 
house shows that he 
would be respected by 
people and he would live 
by his intelligence and 
wisdom *. The presence 
of Jupiter in the tenth 


house shows the stability of his nature as also his skill in 
arbitration °. 








The presence of Venus and Mars in the 

fourth house shows his residence in a house of bricks”. 
The aspects of three benefic planets on the ninth house 
shows his devotion to truth and respect for elders *. The 
aspect of three malefic planets there would of course 1 
show that he would not bea follower of the orthodox creed, 
The presence of the Sun in the third ' shows his intrepid 
nature, extraordinary courage and strength of mind", The 
presence of Mercury in the fourth shows his complete re- 
nunciation of worldly affairs. The presence of the Moon in 
the first house shows him to be a pleasing writer although 
the presence of Rahu there would mean that his writing 
would not be popular with all”. The presence of Saturn 
in the fifth house goes against his being a skilled orator 6, 


110 Upadeba Sita 


123. Sahityasamrat N..C. Kelkar ; Birth date 
24/25-8-1872 at 4-34 a.m. The Moon. is the 
Significatory Planet- 
i Position of the planets 
weg at the time of birth :— 
The Sun at 1° in VI. 
The Moon at 20° in II; 
Mars at 3° in V; Mercury 
at 7° in VI; Jupiter at 
18° in V; Venus at 13° 
in VI; Saturn at 14° 
in X; Rahu at 18° in 
IIL; Ketuat 18° in IX; 
Lagna at 8° in IV. 











The significatory planet Moon shows a life of enjoy- 
ment and pleasures?. ‘The presence of the Moon in the 
first shows that the person is to make his livelihood by his 
learning and scholarship*. The presence of the Moon in 
the first-and that of the Sun, Mercury and Venus** in 
the fifth shows his vast powers of speech attended with 
powers of reasoning and skill in interpretation ; the Moon 
shows powers of writing with a charming style ® .the 
subjects being Literature and Politics®. The presence of 
Mercury inthe fifth shows his skill in interpretation sah 
while that of Venus is expected to make him a poet, is 
orator and a critic *. The presence of the malefic Saturn 
in the ninth shows his being an astute politician, not much 
devoted to religious rites 5. The presence of Mars and 
Jupiter i in the fourth shows his residence in a house of 
bricks.” and wood ™, 


Introduction 11 


' 124. Pandit Jawaharlal Nehru: Birth date 
14-11-1889 Kartika Krishna 6th at 1l’p. wu. The 


; osition of planets 
Atma HareaiuegD 3 as follows :—au 17° 
in V. 1 2° in VILL aq 
9 in V. a9 1° in VIL, 
aa 8° in VIL. a 6° in 
X. um 8° in VIIL af 2° 
in VI. ug 4° in IV. &y 
4° in X. The Sun is 
the Significatory Planet. 
As the Sun is the significatory planet the person is 
expected to occupy a very high office of State (Fa Ht Uma 
I. 2.19). By the presence of Venus there, he ig expected 
to lead a life of pleasure and enjoyment maintaining himself 
by his intellectual abilities. (rguEiaint Rasta 4 I. 2.15), 
He is expected to Possess:a_ versatile genius, and fond of 
pleasures and skilled in polities ( usar: atta: Wagmaq UF 
I. 2.14) The planet Venus shows considerable powers of 
speech, the presence of Mercury there adding the element 
of skill to the speech. (Yor shail seas]. 2. 105 ), 
On account of Venus and Mercury both in the first house, 
he is not expected to be a writer of many books. 
(mata gIET maT) azo fs 

103, 104). . The presence of Mer 
him’ a_ business man, a spinner and skilled 
(aftrergirm Rea saree ae 1,2 17 ). The Moon in 
the ‘tenth makes him steady in nature and skilled.in arbi. 
tration and compromise. ( grt ea I 9. 49 )« The 
presence of Ketu in the third makes him bold and intrepid 
although the presence’ of Jupiter there is expected ¢ 


3 O make 
him yield in an honourable way on occasions, FA ong WA 








in Arts, 


lig Opadesu Sutrd 


wR sae I. 2. 64, 65.) The presence of Ketu on one side i 
that of Saturn on the other side of the Ascendant at ane 
distances shows bondage or imprisonment, the sting e 
which is likely to be softened by the Les a 

Jupiter there along with Ketu. ( wariag, 1. 3. 42-4 2 bi e 
presence of Rahu in the ninth is likely ts ns e 
Sceptic in religious matters. ( aaa at: I. 2. 49. ).The 
presence of Mercury in the first is likely to anak 
him proficient in the Science of interpretation. ( gaa Hintes: 
I. 2.110.) The presence of the Sun in the First is also likely 
to make him fond of philosophy and Music. ( tao aaa 
‘aga I. 2.118, 114.) 


125. Sardar Vallabhbhai Patel: Birth date 31-10-1875 
Kartika S‘ukla 2. Saturn is the Significatory Planet. 
Karka Kundali The position of the 
planets is as follows :— 
7 6° in VIL. az 1° in 
IX. ¥9@ 4 in XI. ay 
4 in VII. a 10° in 
VIL. aye 14° in VII. 
wit 20° in XI. we 5° in 
I. %g 5°’ in VIL. Saturn 
being the Karaka-planet, 
the person’ is expected to be a distinguished person follow- 
ing a famous profession. (sftgenisidi wal. 1. 2. 20. ) 
By the presence of Mars in the first house, he is expect- 
ed to be skilled in logical arguments, (a4 Sane: 1. 9. 11 1) 
and connected with factories, ‘fighting with a Spear, and 
interested in Chemistry. (agg erage afesteai 3 aia I, 9. 16) 
In fact, he is.expected to be a powerful fighter, and a fire 
brand in speech and activities. ( Bair oa we: 1.2. 64) 
By the presence of Rahu in the third house he 





is 


Introduction 113 


j 

expected to be very bold and intrepid in his activities, in a. 
a general. ( #Hi@ aid a1 ait Area: T. 3. 36). The presence of 
Saturn in the first house will not allow him to make his 
mark inassemblies by making eloquent speeches ( anor: 
uri. 2.109), The presence of three benefic planets in the 
tenth makes him steady in character and skilled in arbitra- 
tion. (arr? #49: 1,2,40), The presence of ‘a single 
planet on the two sides of the Ascendant at equal distances 
shows the possibility of imprisonment whieh may not 
be very troublesome on account of Jupiter being one of 
the two. ( wakpraarigara ara: sina Ryonaa: 1 yas 
PYaaray I. 3. 49. 48.) 


126. Sr. Ganesh Vasudev ( Dadasaheb) Maviankar: 
Date of birth 27-11-1888 Kartika Vadya Navami 

Atma Karaka-Kundali 10-32 a.m. Birth—place 
Ahmedabad. Mars is the 
Karaka graha or the Chief 
digniticatory Planet. 
The — position of — the 
planets is as follows:~a7 
3° iu ND 4° in OX, 
aq 12° in Vi. saws 24° 
in X. aa 14° jn VOU, 
me 11° in [X. ge 8° in X. a 2 in V. ae 23° in IV. 
%q 23° in X. The chief significatory planet Mars is likely 
to make the person a poignant ‘fighter skilled in logical 
arguments and legal technicalities. ( g%a Aare: [. 2. 111)- 
He is also likely to ‘take interest in industries and factories 
and interested -in the Science of Chemistry ( sigardi #\rarquj 
_ aati a A 1. 2.16), The presence of venus in the first 
house will make him a very good speaker, the planet 
Mercury adding skill to the speech and Mars adding 
logical argumentation. ( qehor Rail Bleed; gaa aisles: ; 

15 








/ 


114 Upadesa Stitra 

gaa Faire: 1,2. 103, 110 and 111). The at rag n 
Venus is likely to give him a high office under a 
and make him possessed of a versatile genius. Pom 
likely to lead a life of pleasures and happiness. ( Hse : 
pia: wargaa ye 1, 2. 19), The presence of Ke : 
in the first house is likely to make him rich and engage 
in big transactions. ( aasaagiftora Fal 1.2.22). - 
presence of the Moon in the ninth will make him upright, 
devoted to preceptor and follower of religious principles ( * 
weaing aa: weaad qerHA 1.2.48). The presence o| 
Venus in the first will make him learned, but he will not be 
much inclined to write hooks. (aaa feiagra 1. 2, 103 ). 
By the presence of the Sun and Ketu in the XIlth he will 
be devoted to Siva. ((Rearai MI aa geo ara IT. 2. 72, 
and 77 ), 


127. Sr. J.5. ( Tatyasaheb ) Karandikar: Birth date 
15-16 February 1875 at 4a. m. The position of planets at 
Ktmu Karaka-Kupdail the time of birth : Mars 
is the Chief Significatory 
planet: The Sun at 27° 
in XL; the Moon at 
19° in IIT; Mars at 29° 
in VIIT; Mercury at 
~ 10° in XIT; Jupiter at 
6° in VIII; Venus at 9° 
; in X; Saturn at 16° in 
‘XI; Rahu at 21° in I; Lagna at 10° in X. The chief 
‘significatory-planet Mars shows his fondness for 
and factories°. The presence of Jupiter in the first house 
makes him a reputed writer on the orthodox branches of 
learning, 33 the company of Mars contributing logical 
argumentation ™ and that of Mercury adding skill jn, inter 








metallurgy 





Introduction 115 


pretation.” The presence of Ketu-in the twelfth indicates 
a fully meritorious life with considerable spiritual develop- 
ment.” The person is expected to be specially a worship- 
per of Ganega and Skanda.% ‘The presence of Jupiter in 
the first shows his varied scholarship and study of severa l 
branches of learning.® It makes him a great follower of 
old traditions and devoted to religious rites and activities.*” 
He is expected to make a special study of Veda, Grammas 
and Philosophy *. 


128. Justice N. S. Lokur. Birth-date: 22 April 1887, 
The Sun is the chief significatory planet. The presence ‘of 


Atma-Karaka Kundali the Sun in the first house 
indicates his: being a 
Government servant 1, 


while the presence of 
Mars there would show 
his spirited nature and 
liking for Chemistry and 
Manoufacturing 3, = The 
presence of Rahu in the 
fourth aspected by the moon shows his residence in a palatial 
building of stones®. The presence of Jupiter in the seventh 
house indicates a devoted wife of excellent nature 2” 
although the aspect of S/ani there is likely to spoil the 
company of wife by seperation. The presence of the malefic 
planet Saturn in the third house shows his courageous 
nature and bold attitude’. By-virtue of Mercury and Moon in 
the twelfth he would be devoted to religion and a worshipper 
‘of Vishnu * and Gauri, The presence of Mars, however, 
in the first house would make him skilled in logical 
argumentation *. The presence of the Sun indicates his 
liking for philosophy and Music “ 








115 Upadesa Sutra 


129. AHMEDABAD CITY: Foundation day 
98-4-1411 Vaisakha S’ukla Paficami at 12 Noon. Position 
of planets :—The Sun 
at 15° inIl. The Moon 
at 15° in IV. Mars at 
97° in I. Mercury at 


Atma Karka-Kundli 






Zz 14° in II. Jupiter at 2° 
SF te in VI. Venus at 2° in 
i. hee II. Saturn at 13° in II. 
| Cmax Raho at 20° in XII. 


Ketu at 20° in VI. Lagna 
at 28° in IV. The Moon 
in the Ascendant indicates great prosperity, happiness ana 
enjoyment. Mars, the chief significatory planet, occupying 
his own house, shows that the city would develop in facto- 
ries, mills, workshops, etc? There are four planets in the 
second house—the Sun, Venus, Mercury and Saturn—out of 
whom the last two are not visible being quite near the Sun. 
The Sun, of course, shows loyalty to the State, Mercury show- 
ing the element of intelligence ; and saturn showing shrewd- 
ness characterizing the loyalty®. The presence of Venus 
in the Second shows the tendency of the people towards 
pleasures and enjoyment’. Although there is no planet in the 
third house, still, the aspect of Rahu and Ketu on it shows 
the bold and intrepid nature of the residents **, inclined, 
no doubt, on occasions towards compromise by reason of 
Jupiter's aspect thereon. The city would be full of palatial 
buildings with-beautiful terraces on account of the presence 
of the Moon in the fourth. On account of the absence of any 
one of the two planets Jupiter and Venus in the first and the 
fifth houses, the residents would not make their mark by 
scholarship, authorship, oratory or learning, However, by 
the presence of Mercury and Venus in the second house the 


Introduction 117- 


people will be very practical in business oe Although, noth 
ing definite can be said about family life, there being no 
planet in the seventh, still the aspect of the Sun, Mercury , 
Venus and Saturn thereon indicates sufficient domestic 
happiness and progeny. So also, although there is no 
planet in the ninth, the aspect of Rahu Ketu and Jupiter on 
it indicates a tendency to observe all traditional customs 
and rites.”, 


Conciusion 


130. The scrutiny of a few horoscopes made above is 
sufficient to show that the forecasts made from the Karake~ 
Kundalis of the distinguished persons according to Jaimini’s 
dicta, when verified, are found to be substantially correct. 


In the examples cited above, only one kind out of the four 


kinds of horoscopes stated by Jaimini, has been taken into 
consideration referring to the general career, occupation and 
prospects of the individual. Jaimini, however, has discuss- 
ed quite a large number of other topics such as prosperity, 
family life, children, duration of life, happy and miserable 
periods, sudden happenings, success in life and so on. He 
has laid down, in short forms for each of these items, a 
number of rules with various exceptions and counter excep- 
tious and the reader is recommended to do his own work of 
predicting the various events in their details with the help 
of Jaimini’s dicta. 

131. A team of planets, in fact, is conceived by Jai- 
mini, as instrumental in influencing the career of the indivi- 
dual, The chief significatory planet is made the Commander 
of the team with the other planets as his lieutenants, The 
merits of the respective places of the planets, as algo the 
relative position of those places with the main centre of 
activity viz. the Ascendant or the Division of the Sieni- 


118 Upadesa Sutra 


ficatory planet, play an important part in bringing about the 
various events. Life, in fact, is looked upon as a battle which 
is won or lost in accordance with the strength of the basis of 
action (Lagna), the firmness of the place of the Commander, 
the disposition of the commander, the support given to him 
by his colleagues ( argala ) and lastly the aspect cast at him 
by his colleagues viz. the other planets. The Commander 
gives success or defeat in that walk of life in which he is an 
expert Director, as for example, the Sun in Government or 
State service, the Moon in a career of learning, Mars in fa- 
ctories, Mercury in Trade and Commerce, Jupiter in Acade- 
mic life and work, Venus in State politics and Saturn in 
building and other projects. Hach individual is endowed 
with a centre of activity at the time of his or her birth, and 
he or she is given in charge of a particular planet viz. the 
chief significatory planet for the whole of his or her life, the 
success or otherwise depending upon the chief significatory 
planet and the help obtained by him. 


132. The study of Jaimini’s work is quite an interest- 
ing one providing excellent scope for study and research, 
Only a deep, critical and scholarly study will enable a 
student to arrive at a definite and correct interpretation of 
the various laconic Sutras—especially in chapters three and 
four. This study at. correct interpretations can be much 
facilitated by a good grasp of the other sister 
Astrology such as those of the Yayanas and Varahamihira, 
The writer has only made an humble attempt at such a 
study, and hopes that he will be followed by others so that 
Jaimini’s system in its true form will be preserved for 
posterity. 


AHMEDABAD 
llth February, 1951 K. V, ABHYANKAR, 


systems of 


Critical Note. | 


Fourteen Manuscripts, four printed copies, one 
cyclostyled copy and two commentaries in Manuscript form 
were used for bringing out this critical edition of the entire 
Jaimini Sutra consisting of four Adhyayas. Only four of 
the fourteen manuscripts give the Sutras of all the four 
Adhyayas. The commentaries and translations terminate 
at the end of the first two Adhyayas ; only the Sutra 
Patha of the last two Adhyayas is available and that too, 
very inaccurate and unreliable. The text of the Nepalese 
manuscripts (marked +) was found satisfactory and 
helpful to a great extent. The dates of the severa | 
manuscripts vary from Sarhvat 181] to 1935. 


The Jaimini Sutra Karikas are edited for the first 


the Nepal manuscript being found to be very useful 
in settling the text of the original Karikas. The Karikas 
found quoted in the Sanskrit commentaries 
the footnotes. 


time, 


are given in 


The text of the Atharva Jyotisa called Atmajyotisa is 
based upon the manuscript belonging to the family 
manuscript collection of the writer. The readings found 
different in the manuscript copy of the Bhandarkar 
Oriental Research Institute on which Pandit Bhagavad 
datta has based his text are given in the footnotes. 


The following material was mainly used for the Sutra 
text :— 


1 #. B.O. B,J. Manuscript with mere text of four 
; Adhyayas. Sarnvat 1897. 
» B.O. R. 1 Manuscript with eeme3’s gloss on 
eli ape two Adaynyis. Sarhvat 1821. 
F. B. O. R. 1. Mauuseript with 1a=2’s gloss on 
Bik as eS stn Adhyayas. Saravat ‘1831. 








120 
4 
3 


6 


oe 


1o 


1 
2 


3 


Upadesa Siitra 


a. B. 0, R. I, Manuscript with ‘ie#’s gloss on 
two Adhyayas. Sarnvat 1810. 
7 BLO. Ro Manuscript upto the end of the 
Second Adhyaya. Samwat 1893. 
4. B. UO. R. I. Manuscript. Very unsatisfactory. - 
Sainvat 1935, 

4, Cyclostyled Benares copy very incorrect 

4. Manuscript belonging to the Nepalese Govern- 
ment-Legible, giving only the text of the four 
Adhyayas in Newari Character. No date. 

3. Mannscript belonging to the Nepalese Governi 
ment with gloss of Krisnananda in Newar- 
Script. Sarhvat 1811. 

&. Manuscript belonging to the Nepalese Govern- 
ment, with gloss of Nilakantha in Newar? Script 
Sathvat 1874. 


Material for Jaimini siitra karika. (i. e. 72 9) 
3. Printed copy of Upadesa sutra by Durga- 
prasada giving the karikas as collected from the 
commentaries, in the Appendix at the end. 
4. Manuscript copy of the Jaimini Sutra Karika. 
belonging to the Government of Nepal. 


\ 


Material for the Atharva Vedanga J yotivsa 
( aie > ) 
A. B.O. K. 1 Manuscript. 
B. Printed edition of Bhagavaddatta based upon 
the B. O. R. I, Manuscript. 


C. Manuscript copy belonging to the manuscript 
collection of the writer. 


The writer expresses his sincere gratitude to the 
authorities of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute 


Poona, 


and to the Government of Nepal for readily granting 


him access to the treasuries of their Manuscript Libraries, 


as also 


to the authorities of the Gujarat Vidya Sabha for 


enabling im to bring out the preseut critical edition, 


120 Upadesa Stra 


4 @ BO, R. 1, Manuscript with ‘e#-2’s gloss on 
two Adhyadyas. Sarmvat 1810. 
5 7, B.O. RT. Manuscript apto the end of the 
Second Adbyaya. Samwat 1895. 
4. B. OU. R. I. Manuscript. Very unsatisfactory. © 
Sativat 1934, 

4, Cyclostyled Benares copy very incorrect 

8 4. Manuscript belonging to the Nepalese Govern- 
ment-Legible, giving only the text of the four 
Adhyayas in Newari Character. No date. 

3. Mannscript belonging to the Nepalese Governi 
ment with gloss of Krisnananda in Newar- 
Script. Sarhvat 1811. 

10 &. Manuscript belonging to the Nepalese Govern- 

ment, with gloss of Nilakantha in Newart Script 
Sathvat 1874. 


a 


a | 


wo 


Material for Jaimini siitra kavika. (i. e. 72 9) 

| 4 Printed copy of Upadesa siitra by Durga- 
prasada giving the karikas as collected from the 
commentaries, in the Appendix at the end. 

2 4. Manuscript copy of the Jaimini Sitra Karika. 
belonging to the Government of Nepal. 
Material for the Atharva Vedanga Jyotiga 

( aie = ) 
1 A B.O.R.L Manuscript. 
2 B, Printed edition of Bhagavaddatta based upon 
the B. O. R. I, Manuscript. 


3 C. Manuscript copy belonging to the manuscript 
collection of the writer. 


The writer expresses his sincere gratitude to the 
authorities of the Bhandarkar Oriental Research Institute 
Poona, and to the Government of Nepal for readily granting 
him access ‘to the treasuries of their Manuscript Libraries, 
as.also to the authorities of the Gujarat Vidya Sabha fop 
enabling him to bring out the preseut critical edition, 


Steroid aa: | 
AAA -SISNTAT 
TIS FTCA: MN Ul 


FAUT AraIeapsnnsiary | 

AAA Meas SAAT TW We I 
ee A... 

garaiy utara fear weer gellar | 

ARAALAG AAAI GaFARAMA NR Il 

aacai aera Agaitaafaaat eaara | 

Soe ON 


Sitinqaatiia SiRegtyaeAONy WR I 


MASTS, ARATASAMEHTIT 
alavinegiaadl aeeqa: | 


a> d_6 


AMCAAaTRTATUSNA: 
saa Indias TAT NB I 


diavaia fagad qe 
AAPAMAAUNTIEAY | 
Teas: Reyqa: cad wad 
aA MFA GAT als Raw u 4 i 
UGA Wala aTAITA TAI aT 
Jat wn oferta nagaiangeaon | sdaaaa 
ean arora great AAs cay 
naa Safina ofaaigatraaeg ae dary 
aft wan gadiaiaiae same gag.) a. 
Rarsqdrra. ymoridaea  yadsaa 
Tea: Agra VAT TANYA Ca Ta: geateheT 
wa fagra: seat Aeaanaeaa stacey}. 


% PU CECE (a. 90.9 G4 


auereargrahgaeaterdtan: IS earzetaaeen ated | 
an metarariaecnaed aiaareraatesatie 
fine qarqatecmas aaa sae 
aeremTaTTG aT at era at Trea 
erenig | suger zquya wears: | AMIgEcaT 
QMIATIAIHH: | TAIT AEA afitaratenart 
arts Yea sa Hooarqaceadingaa: | aefasitata: 
INEM: TAOMSH: «Ral AI A A Td 
TARTAR: Tee: | fegral TeaRATS 
anda eft a Fedaata offer ica a facgira 
UAHA BARS SHI waa ara 
Hara Racansar nears awermra ea acasz Aa aris 
freangaates Teal: aaeaeT wataa PeRAITHA- 
qeagaaraed areal wAlMETHIeasaaaaeTaaAT 
guaametar mas Aara— 


aT Way TW = 


aa aaa Fears GA waa sla Heh 
qeag—attcramiaa add Aaa ea 
TATA ATAU TerAa AT aha MATA | aTaRT q 
MAAR Hea TA Fay fFetany wr aftaaate 
wenigacat Fai aaa) aan wae aaET Aare 
Rael: ears ayaa aaaTaNe Veale Teale 
42 aye wsaadiead: | a aaa mye sft 
fart fafira: sar: qeueioedt | gait sash 








9 9S. a Aga Ree nT a 


x 


WIE] SHNAAA ’ 


Dagantora anit cara ear Tea Migererals warm 
veritas eae lerdarenemt grger TerteanftaTENY 
UN BAATAT ATTA TAAAGAMAAGATAT TTT: 
ARNG WTHRRTEAT Tay Tealed Bettaqea- 
MRAM Uae: eaMRradatsaaas TeiieAa 
afaqsaangigaa tara: weak UsTedtt: aiAgIS- 
TT ggaitand Meta gage afeg 
a wae: fared aa aM gaa agaqa faa a 
faniaannererate ada tl agaitaresr Aaa cat ala 
4 glee fears t aagiita a“ saangqua: aes 
ware: Rariae: 1 adiaditad wet cat fet 
vraag “at aa Aa carey feraRd 
faat wei ad Sa ar ani wsaedreagaria: uv ” 
aft WT aeecraraeeaa 
Tare dausaags Aas, aa 
weaa BAAR Aad walt asa. Aas 
UHR TaMEdR een AR REALTY Tatty TaIsqT- 
MARA TITAAAER GSAT UaheasA 1 wg fur. 
wie: araraguiacateaaa neue aageAgIATE, 
faaeiat qamatiad weaatrigdatigarg, garna: 
PRIME, gaat went, aMsiatera 
ara, wat gaara, arn eadgar- 
Tati weadleratar | ta SARARY sere on 
TRTTAATERATMT TAMA AA: ATTA, 
WaT ae: TRUITT, 
TaheagaedicaaaaarUeReaTTE hat efor 





a way (% 99 9 G8 


Rast vita Aaa we aqtaraencrarieasead | 
 aeMRRURR: Maa UE rRsA Fatt 
TytaMEAReangeraMaggmHD: TATarg Fors | 
fread aaa meaahacincttas (GR=g ve, YY) 1 
aaa TNS 
aaeetaeua get carfiereatada qzaled | 
wurmeareaa ag ag cary feaarat gerot efeea 
aaa 
TRATTTS IMSL FLATT: We 
Reagiaiec caer a aomneaaaemara 
afer Tet a stianat waeT | aafaeraAATTE- 
watt catatat ata Utah aa aetaat aAAeSi 
aageagugdcan fat Rg act Ast asiat 
UMA Maange T aaaaaNCarat searat at: <ed- 
aaa fat aa caaaat aa-zaieaat-agi- 
aaa ant: Hatt caqamt Se wg at: 1 aig 
Ramat anima wea een Aa Fa aula 
mada | aaaaheat aaah a ape ATesaa | 
AMAA THAT: ATTRA Va TIT Tatra. 
Tea Vacate Tall TVA GaAs | 
“qarrataatte Qoeraeatg: | aGta aed Sg qa 
GRAS BHA” | TAL TAN (3¢) TART AYRE 
aeaeTete | Na (92) ERA Bala ( 93 )ateaa eras | 
Ta: BUTT Lara Feta earaiste frre | aa 
agua Vl Gaia Rene gee Bat wend 


% 9, % Tepayeranan aa, oa. Feata: aaa 








ee ec 4 


faat oat oat var a sutorareaa Porat aaa agi 

walaeaat waregeanaerata | avian earghReala a 

aaa: leagacaeaaa a fAeatgaeg: RAgIaas: aia 
dara: | feaiaheaft aa’ ease 


PAT FT MART TTA 
ata(32) area Fels Card Tet | TIME TTS 
Adare aft get seta wafea | aKa TTTATAA 
Braataa deansean | aa aadiaeata waftaate 
WTS TRIVIA, aA A gate waysa: adlenteasy 
as aacaigt aga | a adiaeaarion 
qalgaeaiaeaaat gata weary |: waTeETeata- 
Raasaniat a qdtaenaRuasemt sacra 
g waa | atarahieas Saeed | Waseca coh 
ait: wa: afraeg: oagagal gar Ws: Raa 
JVARAT WAT Tet Bead | exam: afore HooTyqa- 
TMA Ba, Hoaaiges gHrandaaey 
TAR | ga gaaeaTaviat waviomsa caaeay 
UI HTA TMA IRTT | aA a dlaage 
RETA CAS: Ha svian Darien sa Tale ITA- 
Torey aS aera TeaHE saad: Gaarong- 
fata: cane afta | Arg ¢ wat? ala os yaar 
data Fagan sareaa Hala age g RAAT 
ala aerey aeTdeaRigat gad FA Ahlaat apiai 
arrReat saraeaa | erg ate Paetaaas- 
ata: ( aR ve ) U 


9%. PART HAI. 





tee 


§ sagattat [9 he 


Reps ETAT ATT: Ue 
- fem (33) melas greener, ata (§: 

aaa qreerereat HA (32) Mega a AEA | ALATA 
AAA BA aaa wlan waeatsa BaTeaa | 
UbiaRea: Barndaaaacraraata | Aa 
aq Vateaaaaat TaoTTATIST aqetaafaaearara 
Wal | BataRaareonmiat grea: ataerd | 
CHSTRATA CAA Tes Fal Teaeaeera adaeata- 
feud: wae: Graaon epiat waaaftiaigata wA- 
weIa | oTavienada aca aawaegeata Urea: 
zeaey faaant saudinrare: waa 


aT eTal ATTA US | 

Raia qaafiasaeaiastaraa dats: 

faa aqigdianare: gtehat ge: Raat. 

marta FAM AA ALATAY feat: aieantat ae: 

afdaeaaiat Naan dere aa ala Ads ar 

ala a afaaeae | sviomitar’ oacaarat deated 
ameatagd asa ait | WaqaqEquaadiat 
fenta: ongierms aad TgaaAAN- 
aa TET SAYAAG Tasey Tasaea Aakaarat aez- 
cael Biaa | TA Ta a Eafe Farrer | aeardarar 
Hredaeaae: Horas Failaan: TaUgectiasaeda: aM: 
PAST TAK MRA AaTEMaaa | TayERaaaa 


97. o. feria. 





: rs é 
9d. 4 a ae | sqqggaa 
TA SIRS TIETA aaa ye feraata steam 
wet Rawaema aafaaags Tet ATATATA AAA 
Baeaaa Tat TASATAt TAHA | faerie: 
aaa Tas WA! SKATE frame feafa: 
aaa, vane age a Ratawaiieat 
ey hata 
TATE US |! 

& _Batoaezara QaAATACA Tell GaAATACATA- 
area gelaferatigga tense waa: | aes eae 
aa a way waaranradastion wadiern | sera 
Qaga CylASMSl ala Aantataerdaaes aca AaAy 
wreaeeeaA TY aA A: | AAT ST TRUTRTATR S RTT WIA 
Tiga TIAEMSAIH: | (A, wat. 2v) Bhd TSAA 

FX —* NWAX 
AVTa Fal: 8 tl 
Rae akg gat wartioena | Ratvier 
qatrria Ratada waa | aaa qe ATT 

rae a area wid Grivagdaraatg q 
waar: | wat: da aA Raiania- 
Waal FTAA wea 


areas: Sarasa: 
aaa GT tl 2° | 
TAT ATA TEs | WAG aay aLseg gy Weg avy 
aa ae aia sa ara a ARARTRT 


ME FV | AAATR: ENR FATIA eae 


a fame i URI ANS Tatar fatareary | TAG 


é aqaregarat [a9 oh.4 & 9° 


aft: care mami, afin aes aerate afar: 8 
area vada aad | aerat ata BegraTeT- 
wala Tal Aa men: Ra HHA BET: Tea: | 
Raa adea Rar woraed akaaa | aT 
4 atarEnaa wsit vrais adaras aeaataaret- 
Mead Watahnatat wardens AAAI ATT 
anata waa nagesa Gao faaien aia 
Feed U | 
PSE aeaeaay: 22 

ay dead aa gaa a ane Giga 
wala | stat qagaita areMaRaeaaey aed 
gid Wall ARATE waa waMegae cea 


NA eS 


Saal walt Gang zawata aa u 


TEN TALNTSALA: AR 
ATHARATGROT TTT Uae 
lal TATA RAATAT Al Wald | TT TaeT Uisiiat 
SM: AY AT eRe: a Te aera, aa 
Tamara aft Fanaa wa seed: aha 
aat tt | 
TA ATAT WN ASU 
BMAGAN sara wangda ataranierai- 
Saat wrat ata waareat aa 
OT ATAT WW ev Ul 
wraarat Sasa arpareat wae 





Ha, 9 B38] Sq3 TAIT 


ser frat a4 
agarntereat adara: BHAT TIAA? TAT" 
BIH ZITA Al 
aa TA: UW ee Ml " 
ftaacauinato ada: GrnIen Zit fared 


TT At UU ; 

qalgaatignan adata:  aTRAY | -AAAT 

Titan sqITaA U 
TT ERT It 2S Ul 

aaa aia: Wag Ter dala Tay 
Zaza | aratda: nenehitcarieaaroneaacame- 
HRA TeIFed AAA Hawa TAA WoT Carae- 
TAT TaN Wane aqaea gaol Ha a aria 
ala: | atasanraet aaraiaeareararansaeaes | 
HARA aaa aa Kafe uals aa 
He RACHA Vel: TAAL TAMIA HaTAT- 
AAA: Carte WSUS aa cavala atari ArAcavaaa 
CHa: MATAR TATA Hata Gg AYE 

~~ : 

A TE TATE AAA ET tl 2S 

mGaRaaaeas Tee AREA | 
URTAUAA TATRA TI TeeI age maa 
Tea Gana Frater: | aad aha 
Tal? HAT AreTaIMgaggatagearean, Raita 
sea Ata TaTAITA: | ata fAletor gest be 
fiqanga 4 Arter Bae og Tair 5. 
uemigigrama sara att | ag: ig 


9 qaltd Agata eeisiad gag | egra cea | 





Xo : aqagreaaa [a 90.9 G48 


aM | aeRATATAa Teieatat UgaetecnSta A 
eqena fend 1 waadtenfeaay setraaramaaarta: 
( afte. 82) 0 
afieaa: are: Flea AA Ro 
ARATTATEATLT qoate: BaracanrAcaa fetfaret 
det ARensage aad) at Aner fc 
wira: sarees Rata geared aT eed BN 
aA sao | TIARA: WATATAgA TAT 
usafraneaagaeat urea sft mao tqagas:a- 
fa adr ufimaisntieantorma ge afaa- 
aracda fate: mioageaa WY a sireareaTat- 
wmaAHaaaaneeragaigaed gta | § streanfaen: 
Ronen: xareas: viaaneag | ayat feet yer 
fairer sea aay ge ag anata ef upearfateel 
° hatte aero aferswened adaeaa | oemeanca- 
wart fasransat dist alg aa gania 
PITA aaa ATG a Aaa Riquatacaty 
Borat Wes HT g gat qege: 
givarmaaaaraa Aa: atte a BRU 


MITA TTT MTTTTAT KTATA: 12 1 
Sue af MeNgMT Faey wary AEN 

wat agetdiat ayat ae aha: 

ame: Tear Tea TATATE NeRN 


faatra: ofA: gaat gemafavaed nese 
mara anata sa Aart way | aig aren 





9 eae oa eo, Ramer 


a. 9TH ae] . ames a 

ftarmacfagarat at year dual Hager 

Siew | a jie ay aanranigeaate: 

gad ATT, pegeerteneea@ qed FaeAAA- 

aia aelgmaranat nreaa ata ‘giles area Aeea 

bb qaea a faare adem? geaares gaa: Taal 
Wa sta afaarfa vu 


wait 4 fat Te ATAAST AeA TAT: I Ra 


Ravan: ‘aaanea:’ afr vata ferme 
qari ata aardiat aan ar: saeco Zia 
a afaargatea eygaaaann gukatae Jia 
yea waa afd GA Nwaea ment alaatea eft aa 
qiay ae Ha HIAeatat AGM 5 TRTaaaaraaa 
ae sent eared, aga a BSAA CAG, aga 
aa aaeaitat aqat qereetatedarat agra fear: Hay 
zeae | celta: Bata, ATAAG Ta Beas, aeTHAy- 
Taare ts, Alaa aTaTARaa A ART eau 
corarierearitor weraTata aera ak Aa RAS: 
FATA TET STAAL VAT AHAt caet wala 


PSEIEIEE TET i Wu 


wag cag wey aaa TABATA 
wala | Sates i a wa q 


ea ARG a lal ae q aaa 
MRS arr TE Ta AY elt Te A 


7 As Real Fala 





x | sqgaratd [oo 9 24 


oi TAA TAAT WRN RITEMATT UREA 
TRA URN 


faaerafarg samara ata meat gre: saat 

| Toray faa | TIMATYTCAT IT Tel Tals Way fea: 
aareenaat Gat wegedt zeae TAG aT aia: aS 
MAA AY | Tato aTRATaART sIAEG Raveairaratteg 
aaa waiaa: gat Aetada 1 aa aeatd Tat 
ware Hraata wet aaa ala TaaaAT adea aie 
Toatat |= waarastesaT | ITT gaigemnfacar 
AUTTATAQAAMRA TTA HAST | TAT A RUT EA 
Vid TA UAeat TIA | TSA qrerata aaa 
BA UR RAAT TTET aaraigrentaieat az 
WAR EAAAMGRA TWAT TAL aiergaarded Fa 
UMMA BATT: gray aa Wasa | afaaedia 
aniiagaia: | Gaacea: waa: agate WATT WB- 
ataerrardtite efefara sent gitca Bafana ana: 
gf aan a RyRy Aa sae exer ZA SAR 1 


AAO 


aa AAT Teta fate ata aetna 
UAT | A MRA ge: zy 
igata: ata ford fet ar egentot ay somata 
Waa | aT WAG ataait Sart wai: waa 
Gaia eit igen Rare ge weenie 
gia = @etaurarneed «omaafsara: yay aaa 
gaara gaara: wavs: waeraaa | TEACH 
wierganaeia wsftal sa Aaa: HAT, 


B99 Te xe] sqrt ie 


data st went ue FAA rent ateearaT- 
- aay nora ata serene FEM TOT fA 
afa wank: saftia: 1a waar erm FaeATIAT VE 
atau saagia ma wag a RegrrTt 
“saan aaa aft saree | ata THT AUT 
yaqararaqua Arata: ARAMA FEM LTT 
waa; waRearaaeitg: wae Fed 
TUTAT wach area | AT TAT TOA SATA ATG T- 
Tat aft ggimarngadiaa | eqwarfeataa’ 
WRATaR ARTA: 
MAMA: TAT: TAT ll Re tl 
mh deRen@eaaaraa den Sears wera” 
TAT TET MIT TFET Uaearaaeassed Wag 
TRA Toa: | aa UA Aaa Ae: Pace: 
TAN AIRS SAICACAMTNY AMSAT: | 
qa HAG ay, ams wa enki aa 
AAT TaN: WaT Tella 1a BR Seay 
aid, caida a ay aaateaa af genase 
FAR: Ta Torta: | ta MANA Gea GAR wT 
fae aie Raa Toa, AAT MTA Seay 
qa atari qu Bla:, AA A UST wea. 
faut ia—ghames dag gears Ugeett ae grag 
wanafeaat 3e gam aa, ea: eae gaa 
Fat chtaeindaguatia tat saa 
qalateagaearaaeiet salir soit ase 
HUAI TEAAATE: 1) 


Xe sqqargat (3.9, 1] 2 


Tages TATA WR I 
anata arAaMENag Fo AMSAT Terai 
aag gt wenenataaratean Welddd a sTaalare 
eqUgead | sag, _ ated, qaqa, waualafa aa 
AATATUAT: | AECBMATA SMIFEAT GaeaAT, | AeA 
faa = Sagas koi mafeaaaaraesa qqeu wate | 
WASH ah aaa wee a pruttad ala HMA WaSA 
wate 


WEY INT: 3° BART Ae N82 Ul 
aaeqag4 (ada taea-a1t- ga-ga oT 
aaa RaeAUOggaaed | SfiRaRagaat aara- 
WAIST «| Tae ag ae 
Tsvae greareqale ( 3g) Ba wea aif tad (Gy 
Regal AAAeT Wead AeA (ys) Hee A sREAiC- 
rad aa ‘qed ann’ geaea ‘aeneNaal walt 
wrest we: wquigniat ’  gaekea 
waa ‘ gaet cea’ zeta ‘ tena: arARaTAeTa 
SMA AeA qaear van * geremeler TTT 
fegageqrata ‘wer am’ sae dara 
SUA GMAT AUT ate I AA STATES 
mee Ug Maa ave | AT GAR TeHereTG 
GUA GUAY THM Ait TH AT SAA aA 
ae Hadad aitargater | 2 Ate aa aadtenare.. 
frevera seeaye aad F sae sastaa 
ga maa! aaa ci! aedenaah. 


Ha a a 32] sqaaaay , 34) 2 


MeN UAAAaTTRAA | Va SATS 
TEN. zt way ARMA Aaa TTA 
fat ait SaRangaRed wafal ‘ weaaagqed 
waite aqdta wget a aad, Tat a TATRA 
cenfaa aaa ugar a taAA’ eft carat Sa 
Pigaiaraitid ene aft | waftacaena a Ras 
wa want ae waa: | aa 
deen ent wadtesaaaaaiacaia ae 
Uaiit aad aagaita ay wadagna aft head gue 
Teil Hae waa: | edt Beivasengieearaa 
a Fant area wade Garo eae cq Ba: <a 
GRAZIA | SMUT wag aia wage 
wariaairatsaes: TAMA Tat 9g wala 
waa: Bard: — ame Fata sariae wUITaa Ge 
TAT GNA cant ogiteaaa sare aeanke 
aA qiaateem = santana 
turn aad waFai aa saa: aAaT- 
CARAT SIA RS ROTI a 
BG AAA | 
TAT VAM AAT TTT aR 
was ws was wma cea auinite- 
Ret Aagew aft arate: wenat Beta af deater 3 
Sarat ual = ge: faa | URE: areata 
Sasa: canard: upsrieat faa i aa 
@ TgatRa— ‘ nerf, ftosraeiee: laa 
qa TA TM AR aw ala’ zy 





28 sqyetrat [a9 9. 9% 33 


a Wet: W330 
vefaay arta = sernt _tarag rag Tye nrdtat 
fata: fRaaa ara a segavttia ara: 


qaearararawrars tl 32 I 


tema (9=%, 4-4, 4) agentes 
fe at gaa aft Graven! sake agate 
nary: Rae Ages aalfir 
THREAT Tat wRTMNIaVaeaaea WAT Ten: | ge 
ait waa | aan, aeegeRANo great ustat 
TREAT TasealAa Baa Seas Rat a 
Ale SAAgatay gaa cay Heras 
Ta arat weg Rae (acc) ue grate 
Temi agreey AEN AAT gM TeW wa 
aaaw sal a aERNTRAEhea Fen 
Bae: raya tt 
etuaa: fet: ues 1 
ARATE TIAN arRis: wai 
BAL, WTA Me AT TPMT see: 3 
SURI: BIH RHSHT ATTA | Arey Sing fe 
Way atat cqreaarasaay i | 
rs teas me 
Nala Say SIgAS TeIATTTGEy gere;: STEHT 





a. FB, gard gi | 


usa feefta: ates 


AT SUT TET MN 4 

CARERS HUIS A | CAAT TESA HTH Tere | 
darada a anflafaaararnes waAeT AreaTaT faH- 
TART FTE TT | Stara eASarel URAL A 
Gant wanes srreaay aeenrrrereT rata, aanian, 
areeatarferarta zat Arta ala agrat agate aan 
afaangaaransiania wast wera ait ATS: | 
at aaa ETT sea aat ate aatal Zit seaA 
grag WietaaAie afl wag Ha sad, aga 
faud agiigdaie: (5. a. aI?) gales aay 
AT aatagegey vari Vert adaMe saa sEI- 
adie ofengcad i asa aftaasiteds age 
Zeagienasat cesazeaeqegat mnagaeaeataaes- 
Reamer RaggresraeataaeReraene sieges 
TUMAMA Teo FHA Ta aia SAA a aia 
waqatreneaaatiee: Rig wer aa mel are: sr 
zaNehiaghrageamgagia: Tee: ATA TTT t 
waat gigararianat. me sam: aT Beta: 

qa gather ore fat 


qarad | Safaay qeradoafteerParuehy = adaa- 


3 


vr aqaasry (3% 92 a 4 


aaa arm oaararrat ca aareitarafert 
wRReia Rouges ITM walgsaiedeat- 
fifa va zat afaaiear Saar ain, ante 
Aaa: wat a AEAATAT THeaaoaTa Ata- 
KANT THAI ATTA ag TAT ATA 
Rarqaiatreantnsa. cerca Beta: 
Rgeseniaqatagicatanen se zt 
AT TART AeA waleraT glee arn TH- 
Banga men sf gay aga aaaasaaaa 
FHAITA a HET MAa HAA Aras 
waa Sea Bageureaty weg wafgsa- 
Rae Ta aT TAT eI 
aaa afitearegasat 9 waaaitahanen- 
} rearing AlgRnaara aagranigeiatent wa aa 
Fear Fae gfcenrrsicagorgniarey: aitanigane aaa 
Rrivanaraa wr | Rey meme feaeaTaa- 
“Tieaea: ( aioe ¥2 )\ STREET aataaeai Faaiktar 
arn arate Ee dat 4 WI agate a 
Fauld sates aantarereg a zea 1 “gest yaar 
al ” (4. HT. TRI) zeantag HAGA TEE uw TTR 
Beat aa wergrinteerarak zeae eet 


qelate | Queen gaia Fest WaT wetetaerchy 
“ra enreReReR RAT 


wT aghaeauieitran: 
“adereada TRA | RisT aga staaraa 


FAR: RANA HATTA: ka 


ee 





aya B38] se 


Hu iene #4 


careragara (42) qRaear faigead | eee 
seriierdraté aidan agra aed GaZatat mreg tet 
gard: | mangas saad ara aaa 
qRensafeada | say 4 maga e ea 
aed afaanigar giragigaet HaeKAaT qantigt- 
Raley ieatead AT ag q qraTigeterg qanaeal- 
ARR F GARI AST A aqetated | wa afer 
Wart wort wander faa He waema Cala 
giegasat faaea sf araa i aniigegizeaearet 
wa aaa aut qiaargtat Halat _HUATETETS, | 
rare-guatergaigactiat qqig: «= Haale 
AREA Tea fagrarargargtat AeA AAea- 
fftita daa qa ag wendaeradd) afta- 
mrsiraraiaarara & @iiaar wes aiaaniiedaeaa 
moet fageiaht wer a QS aT TERTETT 
ASU UE TSA a fiarad Tee 
taerelt eae: oat ae: Woda at MAAS TeNTRAT- 
TSAR FRIET aftentireraz wa det yaaa 
waa) @ wa yaya: Per a awe 
qiaigdaeagaraat AG Baa QeTAt aid ay ag 


TEMATG AY FATA 


Ta ATT: nan 
mafatas (3$) Baia garg gare 


4 BAL a, ae, 





Xo fay 
orerararaa af wadateresagrataan: ader: | 
‘gear a acer oftadt wade areca 
WN geN BE: eT Te i 

_ wget (48) aetraferere | arerareata1 

faa afd att noginrgd qantas a Hale | 
a Fegan: U4 Ul 

7 cs aegaral ($2) Agvet Yara | arene 
aoe its Teaae TRA: BULA FHA | BHA 
ASURAT FOS WHIIeIG yA 


es Tar: ATTA We Ul 
am’ weet (42) euewiena | an a Re 
RHA ATTA Tet: ATS AY AW Basa Fi 
TITS Noll 
‘stat’ sea Ge) RTT | HATA 
ASrATATArTATIRTAGA ASMA TA | HeAKIsI- 
Sete larerater ar ere aren 
a | wat wean: we ara pangs 
wants mogaI wt atteieaniag ga 
Sagardat a water wads arcadz i 
OM TAT he 
ear erat (33) ama garataan 
4 Gaga waa vara: | 
garargenngewerewe tl 


ee cc areas, be 


eT ree: eTENTAT NS 

waft (32) seeders | crernrcatatl 
quasars way, MAE | AGA 
armeandgararna ae: gagarafaeaa carer 
TUBH It 


Gl Wess TATA | 20 I 
wae (yy) aadeatead | aaa ATT ATH 
TURN Ria sea Tear Aare 
wa: | Saat gazael aad aaa Baa 
awaanid safetd wala, aqeas aerdrnt earana- 
aiatt aguiRar: geacaranfaea tras u 
FORA —-FE— FUE SITET TA (RAG 1122 1 
Rew (32) aa aac aa oes ae. 
Tt wae wwe: eet Wha 
weraaigeaa Yet aaa, ade sgt waty 
aida gare aut waka) wRseRy 
gearatta vated adtaacaer Racgqeaaaraeaaay- 
daria aie: Baga wT aeeatHat dist BR wary 
FAT: ed FgITMTTNgh—— yal naiteg- 
wey ATAIgat agate ag: | adaanoTteragssay- 
fear qara: aige:’ (g. a. oT. 028) aft 





9H. BWV A. SSSR RETA, 


Ra aaa [a 9g. 2G 98 


aeneat wt tN 22 0 | 


ways) aT REA MARAT ATS SATA 
AAU Nad Gaga A McIa TSITIgATT- 
qa HEA HH Aagaiara AAT Aare: 


Ta Ta SCT 11 23 Ul 


STN aT (Se) grea Ala eH AATISTA- 
ART TART MAT HALT Haag FT Aaa: Tahaszae | 
HART ST GINTAG aia 
wiaastie ala autai— ‘aq qoudaBadiiaticetag- 
alegeeifaara: ’ (9. a. at. 014) aia! ate Beianfag 
ARMY ATE Gig man aorsusn aaa 
ARATE PIAA WaKAAVIA TeTeTTS- 
fara aah cela an a agi—“‘eaig- 
aragusea aaniantidia ary aaa Raat aq 
aginagea wenfseianied eat east 
Taga Bets was” wv | aa guna’ 
‘swam fade’ genigagiant auragqeia reget 
4 Qaaqy Tas saa eft ager: nS 
BT aT TET: tt ev 
waged ata Geeauftuaant: ig deniaaaa 
aratreniaaret | aa A agantareaie 
“area Aq waleawia”, “areata qieg:”” ze 
aaa | Tae AoE ea. 


HOT BIG] BT RR 


aaa ‘aa? ager ‘mreniar’ zit sareat Ae 
facquat aaa arate: aie saat Bataegdla 
Feagal aTMeadorafaes: «WATE Aad; afeneiat 
ae wat ada-oarngeda = Fat aA 
Reatearet aa cTaTaigerat: | ata) Terre 
ART Feral a Ll al agra atl wards g 
Tae Ut 


cieuririte Ratt 70941 


EN Dey 


ARAATA AAR ALAA ASHI aT quiezeaat 
( quiegeaen FT amt TATA ) fasatagt apreaat 
pas at watt | wire: ae sft se 
Sana wai Shans a sao | 
saver aRageseat qT caTARIaaa guieg- 
Reotnesiaata wa we agaist a 
Ge: Ga FHT MBN, Baer yore gates: 
ah a wag 7a gfe: mew | gale: aT at eH 
Rose Way wa & raters Rast ah a 
ae Taga aks area: wea Paa 


ETE Sra aa FAA 2g 0 


aaa Aaa aah Fra 
afaean . a Siar waz | argaret- 
eAGGISAOTA | Hote yer g ficaragt 
WETS A tRTTaTafeeaaaoahay 
aegis aq wach gaa Wet aaa 
quigy ws Rimermsied aN 


8B saga [a9 WR gay 


aftreraara: Re aaeNaas 
au wu 


SCAB THT AAA HCA aT HRA AATAT 
TM gt aia ae ae aiasagtastaat a Hiacsigat 
aT freanatagm ay saaeraad vated | aftreseat 
STTENSASAT FT Hlaaafa ata: i 


ey iS as 
| Raa Teta AT ee 
BARN gargiisan aaa: alas 
Wits wart qtatneanFarfaaqeargdas- 
Asay UN 


aN la =~ 
THE: ET: Tae BR es 
AANA Yar Ta Va Uaaea: sisigar 
_ deasfiaass wag: | qaica alagarguagenayent 
qty i 
3 OLA SN 
MATES: WAT N Re i 
GRAATAR aAatt ae aA GenecaReaa- 
en oa = 
Wa warnata: ater daigane: carsgasarg 
AAA UN 
‘ : AN Ct aN ~ RN 
TESA TMS Sea Hy TRY VU 
 Srerarenterieat Tet AW ageeaAgon vata 
Seu git weraha Garten naka SlewaRaawa- 
TRA a HAST Hafod | TeETITETMTA ROACH AT | 





9, Fa. PAA. 


HVT Vs re ] BqzMAAA RM 


TATRA FAT RR I 
mamatnanaetadon a afl aeattare 
wafea aut afg renin Bg: kaa | ATA Hooraal- 


cage \\ 


CEH aE Tae TATT Va PEA: 
PUAIAT: WYN GATT MSIF: URN 


mnie Uaag ae aia ae addaracgaaad | 
Taniagad | wfy wengenatuaiaage- 
fiat wag: aint ataradita t qaeedig 
wR Ted Faun Aue 
oS a Fe HH | AAT 
qargritan | Ava wat eeat Aaa: u 


STMT TERESA AT REN eEEB- 
Se: RGU TREE ANBTTTETT URE I 


oO 


: vaag arcate ata TAG sae gee eT 
See Tie wR eT AT ea 
Vary sees of “Tat qeEtey ayulan af 
. wera | sat a areata Wag ae Ra aa | za 
Tara Tat erga: ofdara: TaTeHayETt a — 
THETAAT TENE: TMAH TREAT wtas 1 Hg 
areata arey TAMRCAT: lal witrergen} 


% FH. S wes aaa | 2% SF, B. yRed a 
v 


———. 


Rg : aaa [i TA Se 


qafea aeeit at caoftetedt gare STATATATATA | wa- 
Tara areata adaraed FATA ATCHTRT: 
aqaaaa qa qeageqena ay wagers: 
BATA: Carats Arla Ut 
TUE Tal FATA AT URS 

neaaaia nitate: | generar eae 
Ta Gitar aN carat eae TTT 
re) wadqingarty Rae Ws 
arn: Rola | aA ATTTATat Haat Aa 
arm: aaeiseaea wage art ftir: 
TMA | TARA TAA APT AAA: TTA FAIA 
gaea waa HRAgarat TOR 1 TREE ATG 
TART AT Racasa: wae TATA ZT Ua- 
aay Ue TIARA ATEA TE TeTAT geealet: <anit, 
fadiaea UR earl Taras aftsagaeT: Wa: WaT 
fiearfa | faeces Waeatent wr oft Atte ca 
fis 1 oearnaatay atareaeearat ada: 
alaacel fatteedsacat qs alas sayy daa 
areata art fat aa a Ua aR wala 
gerard TAIOSAM, HAT ATT Tea saH, WALT: 
HS Za KAA FUCA WTNwAT | aan a aeaa— 
“Rat amaqzateaadaraa Gt Wet Way at 
Agmusagawcas: ” aft geaweia areas 
wea age Tea agaca at sre Raataa 
qT Ragieael AMT gaa TemiTg TTS 


BIW. gsr] STFUGAY fe 


anager Aaa | ey gene fear 
wia wang faig aay qi a ang we 
Wenesragma waaienaasrs: sitaieag aa ar. 
wales aM Ua walgaraar Aa arr 
Rast a aaaa aciaa ) caala aiaadidiar 
TRIGA wa wa aaa yleada 
TRA A aEata— stents Adis: eae 
wat afm: waa” (9. m. %. Se.) aft cen 
TAMondaaTy Ferd Raul wea@aastadiag 1 

WEEE INET ITANT AT It Re 1 

SHAR Wyse a ae Gidaey: <a 
RTM TET wt aT atone ala, | GaaaTe- 
fea ae ‘ agies’ aff oe Razr agaiaea vq 
AGMA | THT tad ca amdaaa acum 
Tea Tt Wega gee fata 
Rata uv 


| TUTTE Tee: uaa 
TA Ta aera aa aera: ask aa 
TTT TY AAA ATA 
TT Fel THEE Hrese: THAT aT Hay A 
~ . Fale aga a auinftagr (35) eeniaeas 
Fed | aad ages Aey kaw Sina gdafeaza- 


Re SIGMAAA pet aie See 


prea waa ‘aa eeynee afc 

qaaata gsaa 1 gaaiea qaareligerat nort 
aiviagaa wadageaa a aad TATA 
TUE aat ATTA aie Gs <aTA a 
WaNee wate wea adie: ROT aT aS 
Tarieeaet: dead 


gees Fata: Wl 33 
Arann yao ze Wat asa vale 
UR goramnare saute | deataaecarenras 
SRY aT agi gag waaia wqagaddha acest 
aaa Rgaiaea eat a alaee ae Terai 
waders afta u 


fy id 
gaaies fata: Way i 
ARMATHT TA Alaa A Fe aa Faai vas 
AA HETATTATTH ia Lana Fara: Sara 
ugagadaed (ag atasuaq 1 dda saga: 
waa, Spavarqeatna u 


TIRE TAT TATA AT 1 
” guynge qeaTeMATTHTS Tagaalarstet eeat- 
yaa aa wah gaer amie ama. 
RTGAGAMSTaeag | YARRA sz eeaaaa: un 
age aret TT aT N36 0 


HARTI TE TATNCTAT A Hered ay aay y 


H9 Mave | sag ay 7" 


UAE TATA: UBS I 
aa Raanranaia seta dearaea ara 


FG Chas at Wrage: aa | ae? WHTAT- 
waeaTaates a aval wat 


, es 
AT UMAVHSE TAIT: | Be 
asta wqraquataattia aavna: | serrata 
Uagqarat ge was wala | Wasaga 
GRIN eae A BIA 


fH TI TWA a WsAT 38 

fen (43) areas qartem daa | oem. 
FARA TAAAA AVA | STATA ATA HTCHT- 
MMA FT gage at aacns. ara | 
‘maganista: wal’ sft Atanas ws ING | 
Ta TA AUT MRS: RATT Gea ara: 1 


VAT BT | yo 
fem sft vg ghasnaaaaa 1 RR wi zs 


Ge Sgadd gid WAG | oat aaa 
at Fra wate a Raw watt Ratemag futged 
aed at gaeigaata wala eerewh: wee: | «é 


a Lay Lae x 4 waa 
faarquarea Fuiaft otfea " afat BfH gY aft wang. 


atiarela arentaneaa adarat Ta: Wea feeay 
AT Wale ZeaG wast: i 


Yo aaa [aon 


i TEMAS HATS: vy I 
oraaraiangsa aa ate tadda aa aa 
Tecaftat FaeatS aN Mars: cara | Watasdgarsy TArear- 
feaigatoenaaadiageaa afa wa | dageee- 
CATT SINS TATRA UN 


any THUR TTA: UW Ye 

A Gat WER: Page AS Hea | 
TI Waa Rarenaanad | aedzaa (22) 
VPNTTTT | SOTERA TAGA ETA eA aR 


hawt am tha’ 


aareat Tas aR at aca WAAAY, Tey 
fata: £1 | 


TATET 1 v3 ui 

Saree eng aA oe saeaaeas 

ATR TR TAG EATS TAA afi carewa ata 

TAA TART TTeTaT aaa: WS aT! aaa 
Taga asgaMasaeA Te 
Tertat Kremer ivy i 

Tel ATT anarat ATH TTTG a ae 

wader Renita faarat wala N 


SAPO AMEET YY 1 


Fo dt awiet acmersiaragl Rawhagd 
Teatat AREA ge wT 


1%. Fags, 2H. w Cdey. 





HUW TBH | BqsTAAA hs 
TOUT ATT Ul Be Ul 
WWarnaraignaga ada agaarnate at ate- 
fafa fara waft 0 
amt TUT WY II 
TH aa ade agaarHaa a aNfaaertiey 
awa faarat watt i 
wa Tas wife: Ara 
Ter ive il 
aaa (35) aaaeai=ead | aTHiaaaa 
TUM DUIS YrIVeI Teal carais atea aaa aTiaat 
vattdatd watal getsa a waft! aqaqeca au- 
TaMaeaeas: canny vu 
ATT TW: vs 
Ture eaeam aS wall | stat saa 
faa yaaa: | 
MAUS Tt TEE: Ye 
. ATRATHM AT tata AE Tra at ay 
aie veer gegig ghee Sree camer 
THAT Aaa gestae aaa ATE wa ATE 
TAIO A DUTT ITT: 42 0 
Caled TROT Bg Hale TM ACA AT Aaa sual 
RAG aad a wear ae-ara: TATA 


27. 7. praia. 





| 


RR Bay [ 397, 2] 4R 


AT WISH WITS: 11 42 I 
PPE aT 43 


aAttusargard areRtaTaaA tata Jala a Tate 
anigiaa de caangaasasat sicaigaca 
Urahara ayeaeada Bdtaeataiaa waA- 
wa ae aagataa | yraqrenal aes oeeaTe- 
anos aigesa veainenala FarRagsaRn ATal- 
tar aft aan met aa a agaran—arcaiat 
Ta waa t asaMeNa Arar TET 
fa: efi u sudiontormaiqgteniantina: agai: | 
aNnigmanaMsaa Sadness 
AAMAS WAS CAAT ETRE: Fa Talat oy ag 
given sufiag a aig Pa_eRaAciiaar- 
TAA URN AT aT yYIMS OIA 
HAMM RAT meneame ea a ase 
aa qaptineaiaeangaagaa Aa: 1 wasnsifi- 
TAS HTHAMIF TATA RIA was: was- 
Paar aarrat aia waite a1 yagi. 
ang anata Gan Area: ofaisas 0 


Fada Test: TANT a: 
TSA TA: W B-4E I 


aeat Prasat ‘aa wragrenail oearite: ’ 2fa 
aise: Gadi aa aeaeatararaa 


wai aaa yragrenat ae Agdda eat a: 


HIT RA Re ] BINA R 
KUNA mateeantaea: ea! ae Te cane 
Trantaed a ereatg aielgren aaa wage. 
warns wa: ae ugdda wegitat earate a 
RAS Sorat fg Sorra ceqlaaa atareds <arza 
TSIRTAT ETAT TATA It 


BM TRUM Tse 49 
aya sae (2) am anne tare FG 
~ ~ : Na 
WAWNaAKad | MATERIA wea ada ate 
TA Saat Ma | wR wa 
Watts gasaa at weaeaa Rafageal Teaa on 
WEN MTT NW 4< 

arama ue we: cae faq 
- fart we gaidire: ear aftefian: fear Gane 
wagTy F aA) THUIRAER Sra <a 

4 aa waaetaenta Aare geeata Ul 


ita TTT Ah aT aT nee 1 
areraraiaeay = ae ait: era ey 
ate TAHA Hara wr: Sara at sat 
vara a aT wrt | aaa agheete- 
OAR: As ATAATAATT: WFAA TWA 
Waa? tt : 
SAT ARATT eo 
crerarcaaaa eat ae gat ate aft 
& : 





38 BIFUAAA (9. 99. 2G Ge 


aay Raaagat saongat stat Gia | faHaaeqa 4 
get woes a aera 
UIT AHS TAT Tl &2 

fa? geet aergiageaftaracgartd eae | 
oerarentaneanaa af wadda afe aeatswaron at 
TA Ufa Tetiaetar vals TePATAT HATHA | 
SAY BRS gar a wRasarsws sar 
TET: Hera aaa wad eased | ack ar 
faut Sawai a a eeukaat vat fia 
HG CF Al Wad sas aaled | 


TIM Ford sz I 
: gt ae aa ata ate defaaarg gut at 
wate 

UY TROT SA tl ee 

2 oa AERA gem fanftahaeaa 
SAPageaEiT ATG (38) qa ARAL ASAT | 
gaeamnceaTEa ARSE daa 
aaa wara seas Hea wai aat | qaiay 
ay ARERR TA TETa wat 
SM Ug: arate aa auatiom afa ¥ 
SMT: TTT AealT at’ zeae 
Tentiawre: a om Fafiar Aire: wWneaaa 
aan | gaiera: fart onivga a watery: | 
fern: sameNiisaga 32 Hal tETSATy FY are 


4.97 ag] aaqatasta * 


TAgMAR war suterfanieaat int anit a 
qaarmatag a afa saad aquarad | ay 
MIRA aaa TEI Faia Tera 
MA WA ayARAMT T Ad ea se VsAgd 
BT TIM: Beavn waht Hafler | Aagesa A Ags 
ueta Fas oor Fig whet aahaeaa zag | 
aR UAT Tad aTUeteada seq AAA 
CAAA AaTaagal BHAGAIHT | 
FAT WT AT: WY UA ETAT: 84 I 

wageea (32) Retest | srerarcnigndda 
tart Was Tala AG BAU wala, ANTE ala vimi- 
ala 

Waa: WT EE: 1 ge 

Wey (Fy) Fara ($$) vgrearrarganaiar gaiaad con 
Sead | aa Tada we ae ada UGSeeT 
aT ae alta wade Bard: i eiagedia zhraadq- 
aa arquhionenarh a xara qaqa: wesent 
WARSTTHANA U 


TT Ta AIT 1 gs 1 
afta aa we (32) Bawa agrees 


a 


RETR Seat | gyre wercaqada 1 ae 


WANA YVaTs wT MTA IM 
WAC Alla waters wat 


4. BR: 





RR ec eo 
TT AY YMSTE: GCN Hat FATT WES 
THITTATA ($2) grameara fatdzaa | aratatte 


Ala quaadaca geal aa ada ae ATT 
Querarara: camigarnla data | aa Aaa HAz- 
TAVATATA: | 


FeTTo A 


afaraatt mee weer aigeadaag ait 
we eta Tad | Ra. (23) ara (28) agigaragaai: 
qaaanaa He Aster wala | area agaaaraTasl 
aeRTag ae Tae SrenaeRiME ge LATA DATS: 
RIal ata ATA areata ara eat Garataeaigigst 
age at earn VAsHEI HaewEG a acs BAST 
anan ARaadaa ar wah. BAATETIT | \ fhasetara 
awa waa | ep aR AT a 
wareae | rrarenaattnagesen aay aaa “oft 
PaTAA util mat a ase ats T TaN 
mga Tangara | a mearagit ea 
aaraiagaets gETAgs ma WT Fey. 
REM Feats aerga aigaer Sqeg 
pale ae ARTA ET Teathereage : TATA. 
eanenaet ee wae Ti 
em ei mantraterrata _Saaaaa: es 


HIM ] sqTeTaay, 9 


qaqa N92 Ul 

arenaeatae great Fate aTaaalsrearaayarott 
aftat wratt noes anteater | acata que 
Hat at ae onameaeer seat aa wardie a 
Quant | carat gases Halal greRreare 
aifteaey gaisnia Has MaaTsa aa alfred sie 
wade ReerqaTafeaateasy Faw: aA I 

wasaeat ra aie: WS UI 

TUN aasar «fatereneamsereeaaraie: 
Red Tq afl wgagadad | hat sta ata | azar 
SIM GTS azata | strenareHians gest kaa 
Vang cata waa aaa ate Bia aie: ata | AG 
CASITA ABIeaAa AEA | 

aN 4 . 
FAT TTT 93 PET SEIT 1 oy 1 
EAT TW OY UTI TT eT og 4 
ONS 2 e 

TOT APIA lL 99 1 TSN AAT satay 
TU Se U FIT THR BET 1 9g 1 
Treat Ae AACA Ul <o VE TW ce 1 


TARTS AE WAAS ThA at vat 
wana wat ae RarhkiaBaaa dagen. aa 
aaaesive: gaa edaeaa famianda 
BET MET aa AaereRy uiifae ag. 


—_--—_— 





94, Gao wera. 2 4. amianiai 4 


te SUIT [90,2469 
Seay orn wera ae aged | aa Fy: 
wierd Sat a ae footy fa: TagueT a faogeT 
aang | at geaiaaa ae wat urd 
MEAG | aa Ugiia ae atmeat Feat ferrets 
BARRA «AT | Mal AIST TMT 
agate Alena ae atarad | 7 wBqagT 
eT afta: wana | parereereaaiafa aii: Fara | 
at: pouraaieaa aianosa aIraa | ag afereren a reat 
SNe gaat aaa giast a ea TUMeTaA Bate Ae 
qaadienesseadiat Ah) wala | ate AMMAaAAT 
THM Fal TAA Aaa glgRl A kat wTgecarAa 
TUAe AseAs Gaiety wig: Tata 


AMAT AGW SR 
aaragaaeam afd aga fastiafadsaa | 
Tstal AAT wa Baotalai saa StATeTETA- 
<ts°) gaa mae eaTIS AC 1 aad C22) Se8a ata- 
32) aga TA BATA WeeMTAeA graaeura- 
aH «AG Rraftragaarrigaitea: aA: | 
qgaararcaargaeen a ait waiter aaa 


STUAETET «| AT RITNTSA CATT ReTRT 
wataaeleag ofaared anetat ATAeAaTaRegeara- 


aad TS sae oe A wea ws way 
GATT AAA TTT TIA ASAT, 
gqgearaea wea agafafe ata) starerareng- 
fraps yer DECANE greereET 


AIT Bee]: sqqTIAA 8 


maa agate L qaarega Tae SagTTG, qaeat- 
gaa: era alent saeneane YA DasH zea- 
fares at cata Wl 
Prery qe atfeaz: | <2 I 
Faoriyarsr waanTay cara Waa | oTraraTTAT- 
arerah wat a mamega wat wafeneaTTe | ATH 
araRaeTaTe aes Aeaaefagal Ae vara 


qyee Abbie Ly NU QAEeAMSE: <4 I 

Fat wa antaareaanes qaaara 
era: aat alenentaeasanaTaat: | Te 
wae ada aaa oUMed: § waNeaatAaa: 
AAMMEREN ARNAEAANeHT AAI: TATTBA- 
Ueasiadta aaa = slaaTATT sata: 


eartefa ara: it 
Sarat YES TATE CRU TACT FATT esi 
qanamIgaa (F3) WaAAa TATTATEATTAT 
red Jala | ga zeaacaea aaa gear: aft: 1 
AM ST ATHAIATA Aez? BHT TEATART TART AIM: 
oReraagee a watt | sreRTRTR ay 
gaa gt Fat aval uw 
Wi Fert GREE TVS TA ly << 
WMATA (38) agree yaa | aa a 


a a, ad WR TOAST. 





: ,2ace 
Bo a9 [4.90.24 


AAAAM AA AAA A DAN CAA: AAHS- 
ary wafa it 


SAE HET: New FaEe ATTETA ll So I 

aaa rntMagar ae Aga TA zy 
REN aA wARe waft i ada faaaeg: Ga 
Feaalansary ay wala i 


aT Ta A SASHA TT: Sy A 
wereaT FATT 82 I 

fa waa seq waa waa fafeeaa wf ($2) 
CAT GerH at HA BENET geqaer ait 
sara waa = ¥en. an SARL 
Magd weak a at aaa ae aan ae Asa 
Wa Haase WN | wy aaw ay 
HUTA TATA sere gatatad aan: 
WG A sears sae | araeq xaq 
wa aadtisaaa avtagila TOWRA 


ATTRMETGY waa at Ras Haare 
eter aver Tea | RRA TTT STENT TERR | 
I Sekar saat atl aRARatN Teac 
Stat Goat wae asaatatter was | Ties 


9 4. Ba Leaiein Ss 


28 
A 1% | 909] sugar 


A eat Hace: GU FAA TET 
Fat V9 W TAT Wasa SIT AT Se 


waa Fas ages wari 
EA | merges GrettereasreTTs Teed Faria at 
SATAN: | ter THATCH MTEAge aA ay: 
ftathgch agttarnarshtfacat at watafa Bare: 
va Agearcaarraaii fagm: aeafearat 
SHAR AEA aT Aaa data Taeaa ada ate 
THER: weanitat FH wueravertt at aarare 
Ula sass Faientiterh efesaata aaa 
want waaiareg Ser ar enfefa ara: 
TEM SETH 8% 0 TAT GET 200 1 
ETT Fei ll 208 

aa We tay UEaseTraRaga seass- 
BASHA A Waa aa Wagteamngget aka 
WGN Aa Pata FT WAG | ae 
aafigT: Fane Ata ust carta: SNA ay 
arattata SEITE AAI 1 shia 
TERT AINA: TaReTATAAA TTeaS at 
erarraa eae: Ga Tada oy @ WyARaTA- 
TAR: HT Tee WISI | YT ay wae aft 
Waa aft Wg wraT aaqida | Rtaratagedeny 
ai scaNsentgrat aera Targa: Hal ze 


9B WG Rn. cei, ie ee 





BR sagas [am 2H 104 


RIEM | TARY aS Tat agen aa GAFEY TA YA 
dm qatasranifaaegggertet oferta aa 
aRaIea A Hea agengadaaazsng | aa CGE) AA 
ameaarcntang Baa cat aagIEeat Hades: 
TAMgtda aT RgueangqaraHeMa? Hy AFA? 
waaay BA: gaarctiag i 
MAA T A TTS Ml YORU DHT 
feAAT 0 208 TAT TAIT Ul ou Il 
aaa geasa Renta eareera- 
sqadarasat Grad i ararianfte vqremg- ($3) Aa- 
(33) Aiea waameaaisia: | aa aaaTTHTaT 
ALA WIA T Baye aia afe yedueanBakiaaa 
THT aA Farner gatas 
eatafa we aa aayE aleeala vera it wii 
Sera Miarearaa “deo wage” (a. 208) 
afd aa weaea a “sega aieaainsic”” (a, 222) 
ait BA gealal qaeganidaligaqeseqanranecaag- 
qaarrmaead: (a. fe%, Yow) gam gua 
ga adriacanied aeutea eae uaa | 
ARR ALATA AT RAAT Carat ate gear 
HAT TMA Tae aRTATMTE LTA TIT: 
fatage ena t ale aa way stat ae versa 
AAT Aaa TATeATATEATEAT AAT: ATA. 


apy eft STAT th 20% 11 


SAAT ALATA AT AHA ae: Arey. 


aT RH 999] sage ay 
Paint wyqamigas: aeeaa Wal ga 
RST AAT LATTA AT AATGRATS | TT Tey. 
aalgaraa waht manfaareara 
TON Malate TIE Ng T ATA ZOU 
faery Sareea AeaateaFas geo u 
STAHL ACA A at TRqda ate AGS 
WStesaeqaaagay aata Teapaarar q wala | 
mes amacaya alaqecd qd aera wate Beh 


wawentaateana | aR amignandsaeisia 
Rata: wiaeiftaa faenataaaa a zara 


WAS: MAA Ul 208 
we anit asa at aaah ate wait 
TRAIT eT ames wae ai ata aftseq 


a Hae Rest aa u 
TA AiniaE: 220 


TEHRAN AeA at gy: cara atutar- 
Ura A waAT 


iT at: N82 0 











= ROC LICE | (oa 2H 99% 


TAN Aerie: Aaa TATA WVU 
 Beaerarentar acres at eg: cara atert- 
TRAIT: Mea a ay faaens: care manaa- 
 Gurae aa dasa era 


Tito ata afta 223 I 
FIAT UAT: VV 
FaTAHtal aedeagal aT Ua: Caras Aareaaea- 
| Raat eiitaaes walt 1 ada Agatgitaarenta wala 0 
TOUTE FITTS: 11 2244 Ut 
. yeaa fakia: waalitiad | argada a 
gemnaanaed Rest aa aa arariaai- 
Rare fais Faw sow a qaeTSA Naa 
Wad waa aa aagrametentinmeaainad = 
Fata qa: we Raat gaeaUR ga a vada 
ware: 
AT TIT A TAT TAHAE 1 229 1 
ana GG) ata arentang Bett seer ae 
aig acta ate" Frerenfeen: weiter wa waa eR TRE 
qaae a aged wan Aenean 
ne Rela ees aaameeaat wat wa: wart 
C42) are qeiaenate camucrrenaaaa ate waehia 
aaa 





BIW RT AR J coe a eM 


AT KA qe MEAT Ul 22 Ul 

BURA: aE ABA FATLIMAA | aT 
aakerataag aacatag erage! aareag aig Sais 
ataearea Megearaa Me MATS ATA TE 
TAA arrears cea fa fade: HeadAa GAT Ut 


SUTTER: TTT BATA: 229 0 


CANSATA HICH: TATA | Fagereaarireat ( 3) 
faigeaa, waaeia aresaaals anag wea | ATCT 
Mia WHsMIA wees edit eataeA z 
eat Want aed Waals Faget are entaarsT 
ait wade sgasagena qaaaea arin | ats 
ara Beiter: wnqmaera zenweaca 
4 facia aig at adeaht nitenoareafa coset 
yaa \ aifiacefautetie Sagacaer <aeqneqt 
aia | aM = qessnaadiaracaranitaad 
eet — “ Same eM ATRRTIRA We Aa ae | aafag- 
waa fear aa BACKS TAA 1 ant: RAZA ala 
AGT RATA sitet: | vated fatgarart aftenutaagan” 
(a. oT. 2318 Aart) atau fe 
THT FATA UL VR 1 
aahteg SAEA A: HASAAT: HCH, sear. 
weed aguafatiae: w anh wat ate. a8 ate 
wae Efe: carats vasa a ari vagtiadtara: 


97. o, Sal eaesaSe. 2. APAUTT 1 area, 





BR ! waaTIaA Le SS: 


RUGR man aage ged ae aA aad af 
—Ungala, Set are gregs GeaTATAT Gaya zelafeateaay 
a afarfacta: | Saar afaariatt etarenearaa- 
finaenad Saga ggadia wewmesa, TET 
aay rere After tana agaaan— cre. 
STACATET art citenfertt ae | iat areata an- 
wea UNA Reel Ader ain: Hagel wa.” ala 
TUAANY Fae ae wqeaaawas sdika 
aaa —" feeare GAMAETTT: wares rae: 
ahaa: a@aleaar a mete: HagAraaa | Bez 
almatuat gad Fag Acad RATT TTY 
aq TEA MTAT a a” (ao 222) aft ae 

raya weg: weanaaisadenda: 


watt BaF e220 
aq RAAT a HAG ATTA, OUT 


agea at watd fg aaat waratat aaa B eaten: 


Wage Gat sagas = ae Aa at 
wa il 


eft SHAHTY cudaas saareareer Beta: ua 


Sopa wna 


94, 34 oe. aa 


aay gaara gata: We: 
I TET Ul 2 ll 
AT Te Tees AAT UR 

aftaruatan | eit aatinaard aa 
gieafint Agra! crags Aare: wd eT A 
waUgaATNs say (22) aereaT cara aa 
RTT ge Tevet deat gaseta sen gerat seat 
ze Yau wurqagge vated waugigatgat tard 

TAIT Tawa aa: 

TATA SM WB TAA 

serena usu 
SURE wae waa faarat aeaagentt 
3 Wey Wa UF Te AM ate qaTEaes 
a aie Arion or ee aa ate 
mente at earae gaa om ena) 
weMa FEA A wT saga: fig womesai: 
a owt gain gure amiin aati quai 
mat aeigemt set ay saeraRea F oat 
Ace Tat AAT SA — Garlinay at satay ge 
Rafter waciit fate: a WiRenRagaaaT- 
Ta zat gatet aa aM orntiey WqRTA | 
TaigtRaartaepio yaa a Bare wy 
aRNeaA Tl seagate Leta Tea zea 





a IqITIAT [Am 3g 4 


UA | cadarady ent canetataaaay ora 
mata waqaely aay TERA sey Nala | aqhiaeaat 

, aaraa wHagenneuaapica <are- 
wean geome gaast: eal | Davie. 
wera FT onnfasaaa g weHa 


A aera TINTTT We | 
etaada ($2) graat card ageda i aca catia 
BSAA Aiaat CaraAla J eaeAa | qT say awe 
at wa cHaMetaqada om ga cat 
aaa Tara BA gegenaewageagia a saa: 
MATa | Ta Wages Taal 
ara Ga Ras waa, Taian aas- 
WairaIa ain waeaa geseaafeassisea- 
gElta yNayNa saa: waa, wa gis: qua 
Ainge aaa Aaa 1 
TeRSaKTTT WON BREN Aadq ve y 
TTT Aca FATSTET Ws A 
ag i We: gat aoa gen ada ag 
aman gugta ay eaat wate | ae et ue: gat at 
BUNS gaat aaa Fe wife aus 
ada T aa wad ae aa qt ada ale alata 
faarafacrra at qaeray waa 


9 A, atiferal. 








Se 


Wet 8 | 19) TANIA 88 


TOT FASTA Wl go HTT 
WTAATT | 32 tl 
UaaNe gas qedda afd | ustaaARaA 
RITA wae | ae asta gree go aaa wane 
METAR yacrT eA. | 


Tay TH SPT WRU 


afiaraaiad | vaafatt wart sansa 
wit STARA rage greseaeraraaea 
waa = « aRaeeaRaademene aaa 
TARTAR TTT | AMT URENTE Ares ae 
eat Ug aa stearate gaan aevsaT- 
ea aT gitar eat wWakaka ch Ug: Dat al AerHaa 
Write gas we UNdaaRas usta 
a ST: Cae Bark | weedksa cae aed ay 
Uggdiataarat ora sat | sta: Gea appa: 
aaa, TT MAUNA ey waa: WTATSAT 
Wagelitit aa ua efiengegeG ge Gehata d 
A THT T Ca ada Baa ae AR 
“at wa Tareraeatag Rucrerteaget at ad 
aadita aa 0 
BUH TEFT AGATA: 23 
wrragara (72) ARNE SISTA | GasATeTAA- 
tate ae UE: gal carafe Tacier SSIS CSOT CL 
STAT AT 


[3.90 3 @ is 


&o sqaargaa 
aa Farr seta safareatit! ¢e Ul 


aatiiya exaraaat (35) Bata eat wae 
afl apaetararn | aut a qaang fgatt 3e AY; 
earaty arramreargdaa airataarit ACT FRAT ata 
aera: tt 


TEUGTRT ofrea: U2 TAT AT Ue Ul 


ane ugagaia Vaart a aaage Baia aa 
TE: Ga A Wee ac ACA quae: we 
ga: Wat a wal Fdtaeata aett aia ate aga AG 
sige Mat SRT SISTA | TAT A Fee 
acaitat—“Sat at aeons ar sfiat at A Ta aT 
wal at wana: a Bata sea” sit aca 
aia saat attar— aera wa AR: 
warguata ’ aft sarang aar a “strait aa g 
wafeearaT Wa Aatera SIA carenBats = apia”’ 
za saratt grad, ae aga Geral fRate Atrerad | 
RAAEMeAaag carat wrist 

2 ~ 
STeAT WAT I es tl 

PONCE OIC MEDIC CL Che ge 
ay. SRG. seal. Groene ee 
TIGA AT F ATaT aa aa eA asiaey 
a aa frraatean aguieta at ata afl HET BAIETy 
A ara sasiaediia Farattay 


BA as] supra he 
wrrae BR Grater ar eetaed: tle |! 
HTM TT Ul 23 Ul 
ama (72) wader figead | aa 
guscat Tae! ATH acad tard, ata zag alea- 
ermg werReeat Teg aa attr at afd stat 
sflaat vated | agegIa ara onftanian: = areq 
RaNHTAMATAR CATHAY THe mrage earTAH TTA ATA 
eared ataafat aa 4 oats waaay Ae agai 
ald aeaa, WT Ta Bue wad ead, wa 
aga Saraaeandia aaa Fata sata wafeai 
FAT GATE Maa AAAI HAUG eaaea oF BATTAL 
QUAY WHAT THRONE aM PSMA 
aa WAAC oaguecat wate Betta wah Sara 
Riefe: gaa ag crgueermEd eee vat ears 
SAITAMA TTL lage a oat waa caraie aaa 
ang faniea waa | TaTHTETT fod orig ate 
WAAR WF AM AA ad eaa at aa 4 
BON AA GST Aaa aT CATA WARTS Hat waea 
aga BIg ew AH TSTEMATEAPTAH Tarif afta 
Walrad | gitaarga gaia carat qsqengeania Te 
WSeaA | eTAT. sTeTETTR- 
arated oe carafe fgetagdtacsrenareaeteenia 
veg TER, Te alsin ol ada ATA 
qfeat queda ETE | se ga wait oa faaa 
area qq ul 


44.4. 4, BY BAM afiae. 3 &, 7. HAA Bea 


+ 
° 
> 
° 
+ 





&d seas (9%. 3 q. ro 


TATHMTTTT FTAA | Re tl 


aradg aft wargady | aff waaay Arq, Frat, 
STAY at walt ale afaawaiien ada | ergeda 
SHAG ATA ATTA Tera, rate aaa, 
rTM FT qdtasanitareanfa | aa gdtseseate- 
ane Fea desea at yaaa alga | os Toa 
AaATAAT ASAT, TATA Rararaga ara TEOMA 
SHAT | VaTeadaay Ager qaiaeaa Baus 
aaaeaa Warstaqaaamnaey qseq arg wa FATT Ul 


RaTTAHATT ATW Re I 
ae awa wanud gieqenqerAcaand cara 
ufauediat wyERaa tt 
qererrateaa FTA SAT Xe 
WMS TTA: Bs 
qelemageat TAWA Tea | wAdy 
ATA BAA Lata Bate ferarar ara facuftaray avis 
wala aa APTA GeR TTA aT asian aot ae 
ACT AVAAUSAT ALLA TAR TCRTY vale | ovis 
Rdiaaguasaaaiarat earatat aey aaa 
faxaft earr cwaea gatafiarat semi a fafa: 
Mead i aa Bataeraeara evierat gieareara- 
feaaiie: aidaea: frat _agdearaterarat SATAY 
qarreMTaeaiTe: giaaca: fad | catentgereatenSzar- 


qreacaregamer:  afdara: IG | aeaTAAET- 


yt og ae] anger ny 


wariet g Reuter) see Hat Barter at 
We Hat caplet! Aeaeq «Meanaaactactia: 
( afRsaq YS) | orey Ga aarftenrat carey a | oft (2) 
ale (52) Aiea a og cement a Deiat 


ATES TMEERATENT UWA: ey Ul 


TUR BAVA wustdeneagaeat a wera 
“Wag AAA TaaaAST BAL AV: RVI | TeA- 
Haag saa wa  saenerefaeka 
vata ait: | an a aaa died seat 
Saad Te ee Aaah wad gens | aenaa- 
Ta SAIS TARR wea: area 
FAT AUT: TA Tat aa aaa: “Tait 
GH & J Aagaga:” | ateaesa seaata: aniea- 
femraftha: are Sead | aTeT TAMA Gal gous 
ada waiquencag ufareaarag @ sera: 
talele gaatiganatdady sea cae stezai 
adart aendded waft: ase gy adler 
SraAatied Wael afar sadtaremadi wate 
Teacnkeraaa | wat a Agaeaw wag wife 
aiimrang FoR eae a sae eat 
Baharia Mantas oeer aeaalT 
ufdaiany feraamazsas fig alae agigiaaanhe- 
qi@aa esata = senderaaarmieaite azo 


ae 


aay wart aad gaa u 


4g aga [aoa sa 44 
* Geert weireeartay ks 
TTA: Laks | aM A ARVEeat 


aguseat wdigosest at ast adlay Fontg 
qT adidg ae seams wena aained Fone 
SaaT aaa acwHAa ae zeana eqedte 
WaT: kG aa a ggn— RenaareaTaK- 
wae cE | Seas aman wagamanfd arn 
Wega TeNeEMG at) wet Uzaoat 
BATS T ae: sf uv 
Ns ON ~ = 
TAFT Ft AF ll 2 Il 
99 Fie Gen SeASRR TIGRE ROSA TTA | 
Ta 4 HeHSAgiat Tat ay ae a ale B Chae 
TEN Fe aa Htisaan want waa u - 
TIAMAT SHMTAT Vo 1 
wate den ufisigzenonat wa ad aa 


ba SY 


HAAN Ta adtaeTMTAT UTA: KATA TaN 
Feet: Ul Re I 

Tata ARE Aaa ct an a 

WHSIQISea BRwaA aed aaa: AF ara 

gaa a VN Saale ada as averate: cara. area: 

qemigegat Ae eaafa ara : 


94. smal, 2. 4. ema. 





a ty 
AIT, FAs | BqSTAAA 


EAP EAT TATATT: RS Ml 
a vie qa: Rga went wai ale AT 
Faris; ear | Aad aatarett TSTAVS TINCT 
aRaaaaanstt ar i aenaearranta araraeg: ITT Tee 
Hara: Tags wis i 


PUNANATAAATAAT VAT TST: Il 3 I 


Qaee Usa caneeatons — eaeTeg ATCT 
feat | avageda (25) feat aeaeda (42) agi- 
GaN, wgNesa (§2) qeadem, wrazesa GE ) aTe- 
TET sasTeT | aie seaaME Hela cara aga way 
Hee aT RANA GY qaaer aiteaally waar: | gAgWe- 
ATA THEY SISTA | TaaT AAG: BaTAAT | Gaga- 
qi walla waa, wagaETAR va DATE 
gaguigenay vars ay quest ala aelft asa 
vedi ward: masa a deaaree: fig earaars 
af ean dtr: | mraarga aad eRe gEA 
midatadt UTTAR eneeaty aaTAtae: katz 

FHT: THT 88 
maT FT Tay | a aie. 
ware TT IV TAM: TTT: WaaTR:, Tah 
goat eae gduaiterat sewer ao: 
TG SeaITaaa: aaagEa aa TM aBaaay 
THA ATUL quer TRA wxET s aoa 





24, GAS Ua, 


ats 


os aqgTaat [ao 3q 39 


| Maarat qegnast adit oamer wagegdta at act: 


US 4 alfata. aat Hane veta aa ela Faraday uu 
CRIB CHECC EEC e 

faaareaa (42) wert omen a (43) aaa 
Tal IFAT | TIT AT GMa aaa Aue: 
TATA: MTT SMEG usin: eaieeasd: | causa 
Baramati Aaa wt az amfan- 
erating fadtragaiag af quae: <eaeif 
usar ef Aoraek 

Fe AAT: BR | 

we wmfinerniiag Biteegaifis an = 
Wissen: Fas seat wie etal qeaay 
q aaa BAAN fig aout gaa aaa aIq- 
Waa ate SAT AT: ey 1 a Rat meat 
UH: fg Usaha gered cata u 

afizar faa uae a 

wana Pasa sengafa:\ an a sar 
faarearran aang Bdreaguaeraemtig eatagaTg- 
Te wag adiaasdisr waaay: Vara uTae 
wae aftaared ENA werk i 

MAR Wt Ge Fer aT UAT: 84 1 

WY (42) Seer cS wart Aa sa 

frarerrTaag gat ene Te: RAT ay werafg 


14. afta fasta, 





8.9. 3 a xo ] BaITIAA 4@ 


wat Tartangea vad | ageaag astarig Agar 
wate Usa ara wWated | 
FAO TTT AT TTT AaTeT: | Be Ul 


afe aafioraaantiag le eae 98 aT eer 
Wasa Ada ae au: Varga wales 
ara eiaregea age 
AITAUTIESA FT GAed: |) Bo 
egatit Gasasercaarda wenn: fiq- 
Reda FT Tene GER VATA | aT a RTE 
FAGMA Felt oS aT qed aeareena Rearaer geez 
ge, Adtahiaey seq a asters gear at qeTATa- 
WEY FEM aT Ta Bganistt vated | afeegq wreaae 
an ate afaaara 
ARMEET OIA: 3c tl 
wRETE TUG aT Wie aglarea efe: eae 
aU: Braat watea 
Tea Sat: 1 3s 
ART AAS at Te aarAenya 
ze Va ARetisar waiea ti 


Rea safle: u yo ti 
RRR Senet at fiighkaeacanfa ze 








= ae 
> 


9. A. ERS: 


“a fA 


we sqaaraaa [ ah9 1. 3% 49 
eqERAT TACT: WBA 
may aN at ateaey cafiaer aT 
e@aae am amedge vara! aaca efeata 
RAAT Tater eiahera: 
qeaaeaTa sae st Ted: EOTT 


aT: Beara HA AT Ye Ul 
waa: ofrarela | eafegrantentagagata 
wal figurageda seafediaena Serr) AOTARTA 
Qarareanaad want ae | aegaasiaeradta 
areata | genes a aqdan ota aaa 
qa (42) Badenaraag | addi a 
waa Aaa we aia FF SAG aa 
GAA: Tea: aed ata 1 cra: weaeagy eaaRag 
TEMA: Quisdvngewadaae  agura: | 
were aaa genio a comedy 
wey aft Me aa a aah ae aaa 
Tid ACHTRUTAT,NTT So gIgeIRTA «way Tat 
facaa: carat aad kara | aaa Gad ea 
ATT Tes Ta | wHeTaataae aaa | 
Vag TAA aa | gestae ada Rasa 
Waa Wet, Aaa A ged: cradeisad 
wad: aa Wig waa ARENA aaifor ‘SaraaeaTA 
FOCUMTSAAT WIM: AAAS VAN: Ha a Tat 
Ryraaeas wa weggerigeda aaah 





9 A. ara 1 ST 


St. 4 ql. 3% vy] sqaaraara . 4g 
a fat oaarrag | naaaaAcaaararadtera- 
waigriierarenct cafeteria | fg * wage’ 
wietarga-' Rosa ea TSTEAMaTER: Aleaeq: zeq 
SAGE TARAS Atala Cara, 

TTA ata a TaTeyT TTA 
WITT SIENA: I 28 ll 
qiaseiart aga: 1 aa afidg  eaTagag 

Baa Tera aaa gant dacs aead taza aig 
aat aaa: ait ata PAIeHAAATAT qed Sa 
areTeTTa sia aTiay aa auger CNA ae 


wadaed a has qrqg faa TanartarMaaag ET 
HAM: WHSIA Aaya ey: i 


URE TOM Ue: TAT ATEN Nyy 

Urea (33) cert are wal ateaa tone G2 

wadeadar: | aae oorwgaeaaed ‘aa od aa 

Ug: CAA AF TAT ge: careg Asana: VARA wareks uv 
SENT: UE TTANTA UTS 

Tuy i : 
TARR Bsa FATA YF WaT | 
aa erage ae wR ada ae accardien- 


arceraearanigrarsaia a Taras eT: 
2 aft Sia waaaaA HATA TCT ae: aa! U 1 


4. ATA | 1 





i) ory agen ata: 
° * i) 
STE TS MATA NN 2 

‘faguegindea ofioraa water a ae aeaa 
firt at aque anaaantagaare gear 
area | TerErgeanagt gramnfiuenag’ gaa 

weed agnagala Mead fa auarrgarter 
Saran Aeavaga: | hg Gagqaaresa oars Bet 
Yelet catediaer vqquaafaa a emai) cadt g 
‘ fisargaaa’ afi ard etgea ‘ fisaga-’ aeeeq 
(34°) eae cacy wHAMART ue wauafafa 
quad | gat g agar aatagadiead arar 
fetes cage Bete afta waqqadmacat 
RA agers Pdtaereaquatant sea 
waa get faaneeng greene saaeat aA | faa 
ets were greet ToT aT “area rae 
ug Wang A | wAgaEGd a Gea” 2h 
TST (¥. Ul. VAR) Tae grasa qaqa 
SITEATAT Ut 


TT TTT TAT VAST ARATE aT 1 8 
AAUGAITG TUGRAA | GIGS MEA aR 
wmege a ait au ae wat, sant at 
wat | sremeaareryfa wad aagquaugahaada 
1. SOUGHT TaAegy qa 


Va eas | = aaa ao 








40 +E a] STS NAAY ae 


faa a wen zeaed | aa-( 32) Tea Hetaataeaa 
Sava Bats qaeahea wage aT wate ararerant 
waa | ara aia AeA STATA aT a: RATS. 
vader aft HA sacs facia at mae oe 
AT SRA: ORasay Aeade | BAILA A*TAt ATA ZIqal 
Tat ACT Tes agaagAeacgy: |as | TraHAgI- 
VETATAY Agger eatery warnteta wala | aye- 
Pouaqaradia: ‘Mga’ sii wa: aiHa 
* Ragas ws wanes aeaa aa aaa a 
maarigan |‘ waged Baia ’ sf Audiaecaetea- 
fecqomafa’ gaat Gata’ aia varat graaa sfaoraa 
Aer aqua GTA tl 
TT Wa: WG: 8 

SaNTATASAa Asa Ve oEMEaT | 
TH ATT WSUS Wa: Tat A aconaes- 
AURAATAAT: 0 


VAT ty tl 


iy Saag ada Suagaaa at Raaea_ qrneea 
SRSA TASTE TSYTGE ay aT 
wage ae eeadd ate a wae u . 
ATT STR: 3 Te eae: ne 
__ aitaargrar mnt alee waa a 
TREAT | TRTETAiAATEATTT Ta ( §2) afta (42 ) 
Real ASEMILIA «aq mera qRATT ASAT Ea 


4 7 ABER 
aah 


&e gagererat [oom * a 4 


dagm: oR Aa eresa | aM soy Ata aT 
Aawrmeaiies atamenaea aT qe: Alena 
SIVITSNAS seaaerfafaa a AACA aft aa- 
aT | TA aga TEA SAAT AAA CAT: 
AAR agate a dar fag agretned wale 
Saari <arlara warfa 
qq TUS I _ 
wang ata aig gee (4) aT Tete karate 
agate we eal oa al adiaaga Myatt 
euguag Raiavas atarara say ale yauter 
wae ayaa awa eA Fora | gageda 
agar TAoAty Bara tl 
qT ANAT GA TW TeATTATST 
Con) 
fait: <u 
agueatang yaa Bats ati souseran 
RS aa WOR TAU SaT aeiag | Sage Bala at <ariaar 
Re Fe WIA AAT AA ATA qTeRTEH TR eae 
qigetiwrtergy Rad a SATTT erarat vara 
TA TMIGTMESERSTA: Ut 8 
aRegqragigemaa wears Fey ae oaa- 
HHS Tatras 4 
an id 
tt frag: 20 Il 
x aferegaagnigeaniata TAH aT Atay 
Ald AASV araaKsIE Hala i 


9.4. Pen = 








HAW 9G] BTANTAA * 


aed OST 28 
waa aeanfaa aienreh at aga yaTE- 
GT T aft ett graf vale 
Teta ATT AAT AT 2 I 
way ugaratt aft casa, area: 
TATA. AT Ut 
GRETA THAT UN 23M 
suuatieg aang ata fer cased watt 
HRT TFTA |W ev 
waraney qaagay aaa Mt ca 
UTETRSTT: 8 
souatey araieaaatt aftasacadi a ca 0 
TTA MNT te 
sqaagey TIATAA wet | was 
TTT TANT A ATAENTT: Ul Vw 
| SAAT FU 2 Ul 
gaa HAY aT Taga afa aa a alaaraarit 
AMAHRUTTA Vt FATA 
THU A FOLIA ALES TW UW YS 


FIEAITAAA aU Geant Korea 
ATEBAUTAAT ST Al HAAR ALERT ATA ATSTATRTTTSRTT; 


i en ee Le 
TRUS TATA: Wt Re Il 
TIAA woe Jeusat qeacratt 


Gt Tag 


- ° 4 “4 al tl R? ll 
aeTat SUT: TEAM TU | 
RrTMSrIt goal aeagant wwatatrad 
at tt cara tt 
TIAA Ul Re 
BaRARetinen gear savant yas IST 
at a waea i 
WTAE TAT | BB ll 
CUGUIE THA wart aa Rava qEraicy- 
wis we aedlag) aaaamignanait aay 
aeraraaga we wala sa Atarnat 
TRAIT R TTT: BY It 


aay «= - quater aA ay 


ward 
TAT CaUETaARTT: way 1 
THATCH TTT TIES RGaTH ITT: qaReTTAY, 
warty aa agg wadieaea garg erect aa. 
TARTAR: Hat | alwavgA GaT TARE 
feat aU | aega: ga-( 32 ) WTA Day | 
gag aff agraareraenamoaa aig arene | 


UM gy 39] ITYTTTA he 


TRRMTT ATALTAG Te Taal Tied ate BATS 
gret TRA otek: aaftstacar aaa 0 


FANEUT: | VE Ul 
THAT eH AAHIAN A wala i 
frre faerATET: 1 9 1 
BRUMY aaa Parag: i 
FATIMA TATA It Re 
Mea aie Aaah carat ate sagaara wala i 
AT FT: RS tt 
SREY SSTTN aA aga wala un 


TAIT: tl 3° 
See aya wag aft area aa vat | 
Bae FraTsaaig cara it 


TEP SAAT ATT | 32 
 Tenaarga aarigueent areda 1 Hr (49 
RRS TMAH: | WeaARg ARAVA TR | aTS- 
4a Tafa wares wat wart a1 Arena 
naga TF Teer aR. 


VF. BPI 2 a. Baa VTS VA seq: WT SANAat 
FAIA: USS BETS: 1 
6 





SqaRTaAA . [9.99 * ye 


MTA UE aT ATTATT: 1 82 
BARA qetierqaree yeild aft Aarare- 
Ta waa S wemara’ aff meq souathare 
Rafi ata ae aed—-oniter afta a 
aig TA ae waa wala) carat sasar- 
Tata Afsana aft Aaa: 0 


VET TAATAT: 1 33 | 
TATTATA attaee at aa ata maaleraran 
Mara: WI: waMidiaisit wae | saa 
pea (aI? ) saaTgstseg (USB) aft wer 
ate wagtaaraeinfiars 
ENT BRENT nae 
_ Saars aT age BREE aft saalgamiarai 
ware Ui 
PATO ATAFIIE MAT: tl 34 i 
gaa afters: figura eft gas aadaaea 
yore Aaareaai astafa ian a cd Fareed 
qdidareastaaeh aaa aa TAY wWgat 
watt | adit carga a SE TAGM wee ws 
weed Tag I 
WARP SF AMT AAT: | 36 
ada wars a attest et aft aed 
AGATA Fala Ee HAST THA gE SISTA 
waa Fea TAA: FATT 


a. 4 qt Bro] agar 49 


MAT SATATNTA Mt AS Ul 
BIRT cares ada at Mata ze aft Ara 
Rasnafeeaa, ay agate | 


Pat UiMTECAT Ml Ae Ut 
TAT wares at Ra ala Ula aared yaeAy 
wared ti 


BAM. Tet SETA tt 33 I 
auaene edie wet wat af sana aa 


seas uaa | aa vaiaderraaa dtecger- 
ara WaAay: tt 
FM MITE Wve 

aaa ela Be ata ereaary wala | aH 
ald Waa sta atarat ateRTIAARTETA A: ATA 
TERA: wea— sresrasit wt ar: wayAa- 
Rid! secre ar g wdigeafadt waa (ad- 
IgeaTieat agit aT ata: )U aaeeaa SHY ea wa 
ag Tania aaaane diaerag RIQaTeAy tt 
watery fetaet wat gat, WS faa araraitengeat 
T eeMIG a WaT N wate Rat ag eae- 
Halas | aa aaa feet Geygea” 2fa 
weary: wsarett Bdiaardt at) woaeg: HUET | 
WIE Bae saeaigit TH we ET CHARA 


9 4. Bal SITE AEST 





Re qatar [aod ¥ are 
areat‘omeara’? a guaaatada: “Rat ETAT.” 
QUARTET HA FETT 
Wet FET: WY Ul 
aMaag BAI wal Aa AC FEAT wate | 
V1 ¢ “: oe 
ainararetetiaiszat: Ul Be 
aRaENaaieaea «Gaara | Aa 
MAM uA a Rarsegentor asa aar— “* TA: at: 
GHager: west yaya: Ae: AAA: 
fize: wdtal ay: wars: yaMNaaTag ant: gad 
 eareareed feanegare ure Bald wae” (2. aT. 2IR°) 
Zia | fadtaca THasaeaesaTEAET 
FAAMAMPUTS TATA: Ys 
SAATIeTa A Te A FaarHNAeea 
Resa: Vataaeneat Ades 
OS o wy 
RT FASTA HY WT: Ul By il 
_ BRR guaé flat Ras wowed ah 
areata ait ae TTA AafA 
TAT WaT ti YS Ul 
aeRO ad a aa wad, fig arentit 
meqaraaege af Teta: karat sera ‘ater’ Zeer ‘ota- 
(32) SAAN ead cat a aes ws ala ara 


air erTyerea Seek: are wig & FE aT wala 


9 a, eateraale. 





|  SqaTeay a4 


afer TRE: Ul Be 

ag WaUg AraeA Maga T arTaIt ale 

atacanaeta wate i 
TIAA: tl yo 

Ba Tea si ga ald zaatHAATAT- 

aaa wat Ut 
ball ss 
WATT TEATAT || Ye ll 

Qe WIA ashe Ta: BAA <a1- 

VAUANGAS CATA TTA? TESTA 


faye STAC: | ¥3 

aa Rt Brett at aa: Fageat wala | 
‘ sqqISAl Braet Bwaeamtaaeaat ara 
faut W adimat acnormi aa agacan’ afa 
USHN AGATA : 

aft stagraaing-atearatarnaa weaarai 
Sfdtaveaaea fat atkaraat searears: 
SATA: It 


aft: 
Weary Betareas TA: Tg: UI 


Ae: Malstarars tl 2 
ZA Ta GSAT: GAUTS TM TATA qatait— 
TATE: THT wHAASIT seta (42) Bega 
aeal 8a (oc) aeea Rae sasTa | GNATEH- 
aaa ae st satu a wa ar aft 
att 


TTT ATA TAT WX A 

TARA AAT TA SII, SALAAgesa 
A WU VAtsdt Raweeaag=aa i am a 
GASH AT ATA AMA eAAT Kael| SATA: TATA | 
wana SHE: fe sete Beama aa sear 
aqtaa aah Reamateiaa SR aa aft dats 
at: SAE | 

TMC TAT 3 

wangdaTra TATA BI | aan = 
TEN Sa: RarceMaehaheray ATTA: eres 
BUN HAAeAVATATAll ara Feaaugaae carat 
ale aeagan wadieaeh: 


WANMIATA ATT Wy 


meager fRarafeecad Arelrageareat | qe. 


9 & F. eaaral. 





AAT a) sqymaay st 
ma aBeaaracalt seaa | fereeatt ATeHat wad 
wala Rate Qennasenan Aaftea a FEAT 
Rema sian aengatn aaft uaa daigga 
Tea | TNA Ted AIGA 
gaftiant sed sraaiaqded aan arengaa Talaareaeed 
TUT Tat HMMA TeaIgagTasa: | Aa 4 
uatd “‘ aaleadacargaeamgedat Wad | gIaAeat: 
Weg adt dtaaeaaa ” u  aeaaeaadtargat 
WHEAT: TR gasrat weeded | aie sTeaTgy: 
Tam Halal giaagatar aaa waiat saSlagaiiat 
UU Hat g wearagatier | wa AvaMga: ase 
araMaeea Hate | dtatqe waaeaqera- 
aia a: \ at agenagarae wa 
‘Uah a aay adat ae cen aaig gen, ae 
UWeted Anat ale Waa Aatal MeN | Weal a 
adit wae qaltr adiaignat adterqoraa zac 
qaifor srenottia ae: | aa a agi —‘goraal arfa- 
wig Aezat wad | walgaer aay ant 
SUT i cd Garat drat sant waaay” za a 


q Aesseqray ll § Il 
arg ( <3) Rega Tae kat BEM Ta ofaada 
TearlG Vea eq ft eaHeg eg Miata Ba Taree: 
FrraRaeaged SAAR AM A AA aranaar 
eqreata: | SUA aa aegeaftaasaysaceerer- 


ajo penes 


Raetaiaaargaaacameads Rolaeans a 


9R aqasaatt . [A —MIA 


faaetedst WN & I 
fq (42) anda oened Hraeega Fetes 
fafa carcararn: 1 aeHSTaTISATA aT 
WU EUA AAMT Fatale | VTA 
aaa AA Ta! AT TA VSN Bit SAS 
WS aaa | st aa af ae a 
Waa draasiaraas 
ATTA TT SU 
aVagerat sat caNUNaHEIA Fad aEIA 
Fara daraiagata aaea u aarorate wait 
Weta fH adenae agraaEe— 


fadare Marea: ui < Ui 

sat want aes AacnaTEntenarsattie- 
eqeUaaAaaraaaaaa: BT: . 

MIST Tet FATT WS 

TT wat Rega Aoanracte—ae 
Wal GA TAN A ame Waar 
wautad Targgiaania: ard: | gearReansasreate 
Maga TATATGa AMER: TRATES 
Re wea—" we aang eR grace: | 
ge Retr: dienerage ” sft | saaraai 
Gent fads Gaara aareadt saat ola: ard 
aft waa | a AGA AAA Ty Tena} 


HRN 99 ] aayeraay wt 


favia: ard afa fase: aaa: | aa qyreq Padang 
erred ca Rota: aroita aft aqied | aa a TH 
* Srrwangaiit g goat a fea | eretacotaceary 
dteavarerarge ” ata i 
at Tea BATE: Ul zo I 

HATA ACTALTTIEN sgTAT: TAT 
Tard aft Arar: aie aatig seearsderaara- 
NAR: APaMITATAS STRUTT BAIT THAT 
HAUT eres Hale ceSrgadiaa wadteat: | atatzatar 
weaguald aeangaiisengua saeangqalisengee a 
wadtereaaa Ga fraaaraara | aeaeesantes sate 
Tard aft WAN 

fatter T 22 0 

RARKME Gaal BMI — aa THA 
me Aa ate watt, fig ateiate ea Ra 
qaigs watt atadinaat erate ods 
Saga team ay Asta aa ars 
fautiaran aig a wigdt fF gq senate gh 
UU ThaS aA vada saa 

TATE AN N22 OTIS 
TU WU 

Wal waqueieat sat ata aeaghatafa a 
aT Tat wala, aaa aa GuavAcetTITeAfee oe 
gfega a aft a nemated a ara waft 1 carafe. 


98 BqFNAAA (29.9 | 93 
arr RaIgKaMna Hasaagecaya 
Tee Rg, aT ataferres vasa 
RaogaTNT q Aa weAld warift ward: vu 
fiqerat at Fae 

sed FT FETE: Ue 

BI waa gt aa aenalgdata | wa 
It tage Fasguaga aT nega u 
. We agdtesaggieneraadide fraratyen 
wa may AT a agave ag aeat afeeaat 
faa vadift saxtaf@— 

Het aa aay FATT 1 24 0 
ERENT ANSET Ut 26 Ul 

_ Sam aTaga aaaigaAa Mesa AaTEM- 
BH wai VT, Ala RETNA, AaRiTahAaAHA 
seo erat cain wea wigs area 


Qa GMa sUBaaaat arial adart 
miata: | wa a great RBA ae aaa = gE 
nga a aT gradient said Aad waa 
Waa ATTA TANT aera ed waa 
afer ama We, Wad Toes aad 
at aeaq | aa aaigagate: Hel greaSredt arar- 
fet a Tea aaa geTdaiana aatsh aT 
Waal AaTATTERT Het Tet) Rta w aq 


x29 ge 29) SqgMAA - 


aaa melt a: TTEgMAT, WIMETAT TINEA 
affaa at aiea: waa Stace a afge 
ana, warner aq oat: | aaa afsaca grea 
TART Fare aT aaat TaATATAT AAA HET ALoTIATA 
aga: afta: seqaweagaa UeaRTaga- 
eararat “aarlG wdaraaned... Bata ar (a. %c—Bo)” 
ala wag aaa 
VAEFTTA 29 1 

arena gare gare aaa 

fara a wat u 
TAY TF Taira: re i 

Wt (G2) aegated ena RRA eAgUEeCT- 
TERT Gaaasaahh grgtanaasaa sie Gai 
7 aga, fg graTaRatamaAA aetaataat- 
aed Syste latent | ggaaeTte wat ARCH 
WNgeaaTSaAaTAtE— 

ld TATE Ul TETTTETTATE 


TEE AT 1 29,20, I 
TAUTTATAA A WATT aT GATeaeeg 
FN AMS AAT FMT OTA AK waa) ste 





198 zagataat [29 4 gt 
Waaanignen sweagat aA MEN AMT A TATGA I 


feenearan a anag aaa aria 
fRtaortintns sree aaag 
TAT Wt RR Ul 
ay viimeta catongatt sfeagatd— sm- 
WANA Wass AMA: Wot aw aAGaad waa 


Teta GAA HUERTA Fragar: aeqa- 
wagiaigeredt ateas| cada ead ara areatecla- 
TATA AAATI TATT Ufeaecy TATAAT- 
ale F Aaa attatatan aaa ata aAdsteata 
ANAT USAT AAT Hea TAG ATA ANT:- 
went waded: aormfeaga Aezara- 
Tigreaih it cara woes aa GATERTT 
Rg ag WAlatgdin:, wR FaAgalt saa 
‘fea Aeeagain seat: waitgten aim: gartars- 
fnfga: | aegenneatigerat wedded ates area. 
wall PMI WRIST TAA Fa 
aaigam: wt dare war wean” zu ser 
oo, 


TRH FTG FATE | Ra I 


waft | aa 4 ae ACH: 
BiaARCTARTaS AA MAT ATR 


HAM IA 23 | aqgmeaa, Un) 


waa sreagiy vals ae ane ate merge 
atten ae duiqiadiit wart: | areranane 
BINA aA waranaiaye TAHTATATA AT ea 
ROTA Tea say | ser waa Praha 
peat stat: afeaTtga: | att (24) aeaA AA 
tart afeiargaita arareraaega AAATATH ATH GAT 
Wit wart Teer at g ara (S739) eR 
anmearer Ae: fat zi aati weg‘ aa’ 
age ‘quae’ zepi wae aA Te GHA WE 
AIS Aid AAU at ala atnigatia wala | ZaA- 
Rica dinea ust wale ata at awit waiter: | 
Fang mitted eeeargat atv me: 1 RaE— aa 
ara _ Frage aii aa TAT | Ta aa A Taeuy- 
day TATSTa: Ut aeziaTh Aaa ateattaeg q2aTa: | 
SqaTigaarettagen TaeTTe ” ait Tater BARTER 
mera wgENgQrItaITaA Taig: 
egHETHaeMY: | wgaTEATNAITeTTAAIaTa 
. Sqrrerguargeniatieargat SACATTTATT: 
“ greagangaarat Gears 1 steqaeg- 
Pee eaaiaarora: ”” zeanlgat sMaR ara 
WY Waa AGA aT wa AetenMT aR 
aghana: saa aatt orgatd wala cada aaa 
Pracienaatorenenigatqerseanitaentegtanaat qatar 
maga waft ada | aatenitaceatientsraerarr 
sernieaiagelita: qoaadeiatad maorgni 


ieee soaioe Rae: | aut Ra 


9 aquxtaaa for 291 4 B39 


Rae ale Anaya aA TN — Gerrataaa g MT 
Sat wget | ar gaat OT KMART: 
area! N ealeter: ease: Tats Taeala | aire 
araraeaatartargta afar uw Ataeaerega: qatar 
guage | wer faarerascta farotia oeargfa a 
wee: waiagaaa | Tanrdeals ong 
ABN Wa: Ho sat cde alsa: HATA | faa 
qits Ren yetang aed ais ug arageaATe- 
After ARs 1 ate Teo ae ga: Maar: 
qataah aay Saeett git aaa | vate DAA 
J ag gfaaeia un att ge a ws a7 
Te fear | ante Aaa awl aa Gara: Fat 
TAMA aT SAA | HATE Ty? TAA. 
gag a fiwa” zit i ort wageea grqadem Taal 
a Gereneneh auareaea at gal aia ate 
ag htatraraitieantqaatitita sai gigaatgre: 
HAA | Fae Cate aa Fg: HAA | wTTY ata 
aig aqua gh: wrat | ote eieat aero 
gaa TagwAa ar faotiargia qatardae: Tat 
grant Ataeaat vatarderfa: Aral t areneat: war sta 
aan wine Pezamg: watedar wea | dat 
AAAININ Saat ataed vat afé Rar aya 
Tada Penis sawetts waits feraaa at 
wfarrer cagarat gel aaa‘ sftmgerener? (223442) 
Re gee wart ‘ata’ (32) waa aN eT 
grat | wart wae greet eat at At TaNsHAa 


HRA Bre] aqyataart 98 
aft Ratdara gepiata | gaaifad a fraft watt 
ata Ta: 
TA: TTT: WY AU 
OTA TaYSTA, Ta Uae ft | aT 
SRR —aeaTa Sava, wTevaaange: | area 
Weg: MATT Biaanea: ” zie i 
UHUT: BT TT AT TT TT NR 
“aaa waeaan at gaaaanqaat at 
Rega fed waa Aeahacaarar 


SAUL NN 


ARATSY THMaa aT ALATA Wala Vu 
Rare: wees FMT aT 
FAAS: Ul Re I 

fea (42) ort (33) aeqrat amanda =a | 
SITHAA: UTaMEATaia ara fPAa gest Gases = 
tart Tega aA Heat ea wala | aa shy 
BAIANAaAY WIgay HATA waa 
MATT VS 1 afAeGy aT asaze- 
STATTH F Ue il 
STASRRMY Waseda ata aa area 
CHET GA AMS ATATITAT: TGS TATA TATETA 
vada: u aaa aang ae seen 
araRrecaa ware waded sat ares- 


do FTTH [ A249 G2 


Weer ooaAeaate «= -RATTATASGT aT 
CHET T HreRrRta oTIgeH Ate HAA ates, ATTA 
ae ae stymaaa aft adtat at ozft ware 
SAT HAMA WE: 


HAeTTeFAT WW RS Il 
BaD dies sa HeTTATAl wale | 
AAT SMH TaTEAfRATIATag aaa A 
RAMS, YuTsat q aenaegite | cada wT 
careney aT FSatiL, gree megs: ARH 
GUA waa amigaa = aenatgladifa gareta: 


Tl AN 30 Nl 
yt aie cata vat laa a i araredafata 
afearatt a Ga Rema wala, ge DaTeead- 
fa wea aT aes adm aaa Tt Te 
PERE d at meargieaara 


 TUeeRAETMATS: 132 

saReamy Bdtasswagesy wie: ame a 
aa afi a mange: feanutatedat | ta gala: 
YRUH MT TAMSAATATT HATA HY Hea 
cata goteghtarheneaferata ae Ua: earate suit 
frien waaay | wad faanuargdadia ara: 


aay attr wl ae 


Rg MITAG afaraterals ada a Haarere: 
Raat wa walt | 


HR 9 | 3] sqaure, e 


feramat saravd frrry 33 Il 
aaraeqareey gerta TAM rea Tee RTATA 
Wasaga zen fRaeasya earearaa | aa Fae- 
Ware waa ane ar averaid 
frat | aay Ragmavag saneniefeaen (1h 
RVWVR-VVG wart qecana ) again aftacave 
aaalia Ae BOS awl waft i quem aleag 
Tat za THT — 
aaTAATT: TTT TTT ROA: 
GY AT a¥,34 I 
wiRatigeaarantranea avs ai eel URE 
ps laigiasirel seaa— MAI TAT AAA wa- 
eratore 
meg a al wadieaet | aaa agaraa— 
‘ gamed gitaa nome’ afaiaa ” sft u 
TTA: SATATHSYHET FT Be 
qaarenaiaernietemat = Sawalitegsat 
weal aaryarat amasset wat gigeneaqerniaaa 
wate 
TATA TAT TEAL 9 1) 
Satta wat at wat ed eareate- 
ranatia | arene (SY) eat aa eaTAgERa ae 
TaN (3 +) warmed TA | BRA ECaaTg 


9%. 4. TIME 
24 





a Se ect (a, 29.49 43 

srradarety ay aaranfaaa eaters at get aT aa” 
anretenfararaeca fara: are | qaratedarear- 

Riva at ge vent fre wet aaa! ate 

Feagertg ‘ aaamey ’ aft oat goad | aa‘ aa 
wrmeg ” areaea ready aaa Bera: 1 aRadarn 

Aradaaal arrives: § fares zaAT ATT 
aft a5 


MgerraTaaaft Gz: i Se 
BAI Ve care fig (42) aa G) aeareat 
waa eeaa | wageda aeRiage: | aA 
AMAT A AABN aadey a: wl ara asarea az 


gfa sarearaa Nl 


AMT TWEE: 88 
qoerrat ae wasezed carte aadiaca wa- 
Gat Waa | aa A AaTAH VA Tata ae qaz- 
wetfe Bit eq zit gare gh carte eaanaa 
aared: 
ort Aes oF VSAM: Ui vo 
qwat BF BIEe aft awd sngdaa se- 
weg Grate Sead | ca a ea aeragearararfe- 
ASYSA AN wafer | aeraeagratgaintana seats 
aed Bdtraeamred qian a wAOTY: 
MATa Wate | eanghtee waa ae Ha Note‘ az. 


@. 244. 4 ae] sage at 
Toray: eft agearqaigerag Wet | aeTeA NAR 

HTM AAT AAA carga arnt argeatar <ae- 
ah: TT! ad VATA BAIA qm | afearatat stea- 
aeagtaaa far fracage: TAA TAAATATAT- 
FRATEAANAT VARIN FAUINEH Ha CA AT- 
feat kara wreTraataT gia aA 


TAT WATT i ye 
Ve YNIEBaRMegIMNgae = waATT 
Wadia: as ata qed cangeat: 
TTT TW YR IU 
Rema Haaaeme—adiaagqed an 
afa aargnaigy a Tord Tafag aeay aa 


RG | TRIE SM wea a TEM TAA 
ad watt u 


Heaesss MAIO WITT 
TT RA Wee 


JPR Wig; Anaa WAI aT ae 
 afninwag a eg: cae agian, 
feat awari, Bat cari gina | aera 

wey fred eaterh: | aed gereaa 
waa geeks 1 RAY get Tae senftrered are 
Te warenigerd gaia | oTeaAG at aug at ea 
Fait areas aragiaaigea | * materi 





14 TaN qaaafe at gaa aT IW | 





ee gqgnaa faa a gt 
& aff ueammae aaa: afd creat cea 
Aaaeat a operat Wa) AeghegGe TANT 
arte at art qi wta: ” Zaid wa; ayaa | 
‘aga wer a‘ orgugdt’ aid Gant veo | 
qa wegigg terra agate: vareTagte- 
fotanageeratt adam aes fraanaa aan 
meaaed watt 1 ar oiftremera cana Ga 
WIAA YEE Fin: aidaea: Bataea gDaarat- 
Teas agents we: aaatisa: | ceqaaal ata- 
feasarra aft aeai@e@meara <qaeaamt ar: 
ait | wads ‘aa aa’ zit ae aa (35) 
Wr Reeasnng Bieeqages aria qastaata 
BTN WIAA | wftiereg queen waamneesca 
a aita Faw Get: aaraa fag quaeqMa aca 
am: aanga: carlafa wet: gana: carat aa Ararat 
aorta aca: Raa saat Ata | 
TARA ATCT SAM TITAN As AA vals, VAT 
qa aierag eet: wrameat ag rata cTUEFeFREt 
Aeat UAHA GEE DATTA TATA araATzer 
TT Wa: Ley TIONS TT PETA ala, TITAN 
Hag A AT AM, YAEeag a ATA, aeqiheqaiy war 
gate: canary alate arreraEArT ae fanaa zft 
HATA: | SI FAY BAIA Aetna vata, aera- 
aera Wee: TATA a VAATA: CAAA FT YA- 
meee: wameart aft fresasrat vadifa aaa: Waa 
aah | afereraar agra Yao sBeaieaat— 


a  SaaTAAa 4 

Socatereq efor: RATS FUT TTATA | eA HC TATA 
HATH ATAY | qeeara faa: grag game: 
aft | aftigeda Ugeead wasaeGa FT Ags | stata 
TATA HU, eramaferars RU, YARAY Re 
aat saguaa: eae geramdat sad Quenhies 
aT Py fafagueneate yaaa faraag mace | 
wadateema— “nae Qua Ta aT za 
Be | Tey a ese arerargat: eats” af 
Ue AS Tete aoogqe ow waders rg:— 
TATRA Ae ye gia | fa mere 
QaAaae wa: 0 Terry aay aay a 
fratoratitta ay ase igariaie uaa al ta 
at ae GH HadeaS aad aes wala | at war 
aig Ut one ate was ae: cara, Tal wz: 
Bae Tees aeaaas, gate qa Faas gia: 
Taratd aitaredt: | HV ASA Vat aw ale oroneakly 
WG aged | Ve Wawa gtaygeisaitia wens 
aaa Qe afafia fade aia: 


BATAAN TANT 1 BY Il 


gra ead Aen Rua vai case ae- 
Ura: ACMg TATSeITAtas TAA | 
aq waraamseaat sataasacagerat at aia | 
mraaegefeaegs wdaia maaaheangia: carta 
aeaa | agi RaaweaKtA ATTA TH: a HANIA 


< agian [aR niger 
TeMAaMMeMaa: a gata Bao vanes Cara. 
TaTTIA fetes onge saa As aeiat¥— 
Fea Ra fT Vest 

fra (22) greaa aranRiesaat ATTA ate- 
SUgRTHITTTT: | Aqua wel ea TTET- 
Haat laa a Ay ae aA AAA ca UaTAgaATA: 
wararTkeainigar Teasers ara: 


Gra GF Ade MTA: Ul ve Il 

VARTA gufaataenataaia: Aaa | ea 
arate aftreaaona a ee aid RATATAT TAMA: 
Ueda TT agMaet | oragentafazaa wt qais 
at wa wae aera | gegerezare eaTageaa aft 
aaa 

TTT TW TATA tl ys t 

sean ag Taga aaaaagernead agai ng aA 
wt ma TAR TANS Ha at agas TA at 
Taping: TANAHAT | SGU BTATAAA 
Ure aieaea: i 


Ue WAU Wye ii 
alg RAS AAAS WeMeeMat a gTe- 


RreTaRTTATArTRATEAT A RASTA Tea FTA CAT | 
AAS FAT sees FT Poa aa- 


faa: 


arc Iga a9 


ANAT ASAT: WW YS Il 


raya TTA WA (FF) aA AEH 
TMA | ATARI Aa TaAATRTIEM TAT Hera Ae 
att Sisal Tat wars | 


ae wae Mpa 1 Ye 

Tani wean salsa — sera 
TET AA sreareReMATE qa EAC 
Wea A qa H ABATE: HeId | ATA 
BY TEN aaa THRO Aaa: | BTaaTaTTeAaTAT: 
asa Vara weal wadl aa aaaaaeHeT 
grat eat agai wae gaer ema‘ an’ gaia 
Ws: 1 aa Te SNS ATA aaa aia aqengt- 
ATTA ISAM H Aya TTA: 


TAA AT eT TAAL TT Ta: We A 

SreRTERET Tana TOT GAT aT ATH aA 
HT BTCATA (33) AT TEN aT TET aT et 
aT ada BCH FSM BAMAaL aaa ABsat | 
agi aa: ($$) aff wea os sad) sat a ang 
Ua: Fatal Aisrat ana as Rat at ades 
arena wawaga eft RAM aH we A Heat 
weattere: | staat aa: (s) aft wea acta sea 
Tet aera sate ParrenRraacana | aa: 


i Ae aC a 








2 sqaTgaa [a 29.9% 44 


BTHTTA AY TAY CEATEGTITATAT ayeat Fa: Wl Wea 
mee AeUEATee HSAAHANE AHACATEK 


TCCLECUPTILIM COCALO RMMCR USL 


FAT UMA MU 

my (£3) wre (FE) aE (FE) TERRA THEA: 
aaa vorrei Fafa eaea fg ($2) GTA (52 ) BESTA 
BAA VeAA | AYE aITeAs | AAANEAIEAIIT 
aa VAAN BART TSATTETAT watgaa. AAaCT 
EAM: | Rageafayaqaarnsas oacaraia | 
aM T SHARMA TEAAIERRMAReTAY Award, Aaa 
SIAN adaeaas Raralanieaat 
a ae: w aeaIE aft sareaaa 

TA AT TATA TA: 43 

aaa aa AAAS wardeate—ale BI e- 
SEIT Bl Vel: Real AMAT PaeS A Tet: 
Halal ARTISTA As WS: A AM TAA | Hal 
AU aa BERET Ada zeae WAR aA 
qiiaer oseg aneurin aetg wea: 

TSA AT ITAA: UY 

TATA | ATLANTA Waaeaaatatntaes- 
wie wad aaigatat agai Tent aaa casa 
agl Urratnfteta Rela: avi sft geared: u 


qa. ay ee 





WRT 9H 4s] SUG “ 


wear fagiay 44 UI 
afe TARY AMAA ATE Wey ueada até faqt- 
AAT wa | aM A Ue eMaaHiateara Tee 
wate | a & sienfterara ti 


TA ATA ATCT: Wa HI 
AHA atAait ale AEA ada até a wa 
FM Wald, ara Ganraaqgaistera | aAgeaaaa 
aft wis ‘seer’ a gegraao odinse: aa 
MASA: RHE Giseaisenrdia ata aa za aa: 
Aaa | eTaaai vaca: seaeeNseMeA ATA Aa 
eH TE sea: 
fae aa 1 - ul 
SaTAOTAATT aaa ‘ ame’ gene 
Fenster sat wala 


FAN WAMSTAIEATM: Ve At 
AAMT AAA ASAT ea AAT ABI- 
qarkargrarat waler maaan warn 
Ae Aeaagaat faders 
TANT He ATT TATA ROT 48 
uraer a geaaraal at ufereateratoresrateag 
aretngeataada watt | aaresezarcadanagar. 
raTATeTa AaTaiAT BIER AeTaa Malea, wETea- 


92 


Se aqamaar [27 1H 


wae aqaaitrnat aaraden aaron vardife 
aft vata | ueftat gan gga Hate wernt gta 
aaiears: | oradararatten aaa areraeatterra 
aaa a aa aden cHaduaraa welt Aa 
AEA TATA ATT: ll Ge Il 
ARAaRHeME adtasaswagaaat AT a 
TAVIS: FT AAT Te ata cares | geass grata 
SAN at AreHT waedleaeh 
Para: TAIT ee 1 
Fraaeda 7s Tea | WT: GSKA AAT wate | 
FIAT AAl Halt FLAMTAT ATATATA: Ui 
qSATTTL PTT 38 
ARRTSaaT AANA aT Al ws<aeAETtE- 
orat faa vate 1 afé vateardian seat anateate W- 
aera fuvatacrengang tenet wardens 
TANG FISTS ATTATITE eS 
HSM SARS GAA | AAA His (32) esa 
AaAAG LA BrAq | VIVHesaeasatreaa | at z— 
SUH ASAI ALA GATAAATET gTaaenaeiA 
arta arate dat a sere arHeageTaTTEg TAT TAt ad 
HaMeTea: | qreaozaretarsttarg aey Tt aeaaea saat 
fraafictat gare tenes aft ara: | ata aifag gar 
fet agree “ qaraaiatt wait ATA; eR 
94. Rar 








Pat ST at sqarteat st 
orto area usreencaa AIA: N TSH TTTYAAS asst 


ge: | asa Harri aia gear zea | 
AeaIgMe afd: qsaaramcanea atl sata fanroea 
qaataenaas waa we aaa aca Frarat afaarieard | 
VaACaST: TAMA Bla Tea NN ETAT GaraTha 
aIcategaeata | atea: aa ( 2 ) aetat- (v ) atel 
Wseanenn i sea g— ‘ae aefeazgest ait at 
WRU | a Gs AAT Tatas AfRoia: | agaaT- 
WAAR TAMU: ear | ade g—“ae zenfearqaa 
AACA AA WAT! Te UM: a I AHA ALR: wera?” 
zeanig sors ofgen a afa sata agratang: waren 
aaa wart agiaita AR ZA! 

Natt SMA sagas Belarearaes gam: aati 


it oter Beiareatres fata: ovat I 
garage argiatar agi: wateateatal faa 
area foie: | Ruiaragaaigrt a sae A 
at Ruatrene qantas | aaa Ararhiardtara 
fraaataare— 
WAKA: TOT ATF: We A 
Romans a asearea aaa wales MTR 
wadita aaa. 
TIANA Mt Al 
SORA Al aaa ATRIAL Hale | AGT- 
TeIAIT AMAA SaAesHsrss HASAN 
AIIM GEE: Ws 
qeraRanTaG ate weatla: weg aaate fian- 
fearnal wa) wa farsa = oceaoianra 
Biad aoaed fees ; 
tec. 8 lin + ~ 
mit wast Tee aay ATA: We A 
agar agara at oft ase ait ara- 
ITH aIATAAT Aaa ATAU ATE ALOT 
aeaeay Wy Ul 
SAAN EIS WM TS FTTH 8 
fagarey Aa a soos att acareg 


4H. &, ARN THIS ATS TAA 4 1 





AWN & aeyTeTe me 


BAHT ata cere Pare aN aaTAN fra wala | 
SIT SEN HreHarT aarat aft fagaigares- 
maaarat frat waft gerd aaa, | 


TST ATT US 

Reareagainaas, agree a PaaS ATA 
AA AMARA aeTlian FANAS WAI TAT 
anNeatayz ti 

TET ae Gey saaqerat raha 
ie i 

fart (22) aaa greet eorageaa Ho ($2) sea 
Ta gaa af atetiya wet oa 
algal afa wuaarat weaamnsamat at fightaaheaa 
aged | aaa qd word AIA ate a aat- 
amt aageanaa: Religare BiG 
SEAT: | PARETEA TaAATAH TAS AVMs A eeNTT- 
Rratal warawaa fate AE | tg Sata 
ASIA AT ASAT taaeda gleataraaa 
menate aa: 1 


TENTS: MAT: TTT SEU U1 


Magara: afore orattattmarg- 
We Yet TEA: Adigiganeqraiaa aq ware | 
(aS ow 
Waezet YAM at avs ata ZA ara: 





98. &, aaNet fea, 


ag aqqeresti pete ae abs 
TAS FIAT I Yo Il 
maifransamamat wear walt | yet: 
ufaawaraarncanggya aaageda faa 
TASS TTT Ut 22 
e AAAI «|—|—-ATAwIaTAT 
fara wate 
HAT TITAS SF ALT | 22 Ul 
AYA AWTS SVERWBAl Fala wTs qa 
Ze a ge aol aaa | caenMMATAS Fale TTT 
Wage aT ART ART Gate Nadie faraaaT | 
4 + oO : 
VA VAST | 23 ll 
TTA ATAAMSAE Ta Yaya AEB 
A Baa aeT-AeT Be ATT wala 
(Ft (AAT Mt ee A 
BRUTAL Sei AT at png ATT AI 
han’ 
AMAT UAT 4 | 
SAT ATT sala Ts anseta a 
Fe aT Tasca waa I 
: ~~ 
qeeqy FAO: Il 26 ll 
GAY Wao ga ee a aeM ala cetaaqoT 
aeol wate 


9 4. fad Rory i ad gaertes 


~ & 


WRN wv] SARA a4 


a 
HIT TTA: A I 
ett Wt gta ae ar ata srenfdar afiear- 
feat ay BOT ETA UI 
TTT TATA Be UI 
aS gitar g at at aaiimfsad xara U 
> iN. = oN 
EMH Rasa: Nes 
TH atgSawat se za ar Ane: whet 
VeMdgge at safes Rar ene ara: u 


Tee MEST: 
ATTET 1 22 1 


AN 


FN Wa wea a we a a mae 
Tatts ATH ARATIST eat At Aes 1 
TENT TATRA: 1 Be 1 


Je Bl ge at aiha see oraey 


TAASAT AT ALOT FATT 
VET HET Rs 
aia gaint ge ge at AyaeteATe Raa At 
fart Pe Way 1 
qat wognaeiert we wae) wat 
ih: aNdigt MRAM cate aaa a 


co sqeagaa [A 2M AAW A 


FIETAMMAAAT Ul V3 I 
aha wan da Fe MN aMeaedlia Fea aT 
MITA Hes fsaaet TATA | 
TEAR CtA Ce 
fraadet cata qagaa— ada cara TS ale 
AIA Tat at Was quaRaardint Ba yaad 
IA Awl wale vu 
qe: BET NRO | 
TANI Tats TMNeT APT Se al atHe ava aT 
AAA ATT BA Hl Ta atReeeg way Tae 
anes eariaea “RA! qoafa vies maT” 
(4. 3 @ M2. 2y) sere eeae 1 cared ae 
aa: “i Ra, fe PRR ae a” (ew 
i22) eft aedardfaare eft Haq sineeedinia 
AAR WAS TRIAS RTT 
faeaeeg nealeasadiadia: ( afb. yy ) vu 
VRUPUT AAW Ud Re 
qt ear yeqagin geame® a saad 
giddald, AMIS a AaeT AT at Vala vu 
FATT WRI 
qt wa qegatadadh Fe a ara 
Aigarda Aaa Hala ada qdta WA mao BRT 
Tl FaTSMiSaa SE Ta al ATH AaIMNSaed ares 7- 
aN ACSIA: TATA 


93, B. SMES, 





qe 
RV VE 92] Baa TAAA 


aaremy afaeaaie: Tat 
derat tl 3° Ul 
Ba (12) maya sageTa, wAR (FS) THAT 
aaa aay aa a Beate aaa agateds 
RaMsta at Be als maT arg: get tent a wala | 
aaa Uferah Ted FGI | Ta 
SOUICCIEGRIR EGC ELA L MG ugateda 
Rgaeaa a Te agenda At “ Bue | 
gaaanaeMAaenaTaaal saa TET Fg- 
qaa al ge (Agateeadenrengeay | 
SASTTT TTETTTTTT 82 
umigurs man wad Safad Sareages- 
aieaad | aaa gremigean cantar add TART 
WARAATETANTAT Ut 
VAST 32 Ul 
yaaa ala setatac aenduraeq 
TET AT vata Camarasa TeITGATaT Hae 
TEA | Ta Gua Ta Walt ARIE AT 
aneaaat Zt carat aay Tall Pwmeea ya 
eqeved 4 afa ava 4 mlqdendeag | ada 
waugaggarn yuaefeaingt aft a Ra- 
waaay 
N aft SAY Sakae Fetarraea Bete: oat a 
94, FAFA, =, aangoreas 
43 





W ore Rararearaea gatas wg I 


faa aarteetaisr: | teTaTsseeTfs: 8 
ae amiaentorestata waa | Rangegara 
fone cat Rografiyen: sarang 
TERA rea aaa Jered | aateTaTegel- 
fact agar fanitaradeaat dtaratty | afagragat 
Aaeaat AaAMieaa Assn aaatneaAaT- 
aot waite Tae | SARA TRI 
dad wit adiaizeeaiasarns waien | sat g Aa 
RAAT aa aa UTTATRea | aaa 
margaret graaat amar Misa Bs ars sla Tate | 
Ug Aas: HA AeAMeAAaeAEM AMG vatara=arel- 
aa eainatra | went aaiggeea sgreratratar Pra 
Ramage trata a areas: sfaa- 
ara df @ fafaata | an anafsfuacgcrsiate 
AATAPASATET ASTSRTET TT SATRRAREME:; GA- 
Ma: anmngasate aaa: @ spears: 
zak: alidiecan a agauaaa a aeierdeza: 
feacafira: oat eran aaat wate aia 
gfega, fonia ) dararrg oasivga dae 
aang faa agit oR az ongaiaetareateaura 
gfafaratiaaied wala Foner ara: ander 
BueaaMaal GMa weal aeaTRTeaAA sta 
Hee aeadera aT eenATTAT wadiet ofa. 
greater | REI” Hraema Bt Mareragat aya 


B21. 3H §] sage 88 


awairaaterant gen g fardtaa:”” U afa Fernand 
ae AG a Tea SATE: | eat ot ae eae — 
fararrait FATT qe afd aeleaat aia aa 
vata ata aaat faAST TAAGAMTAAAH AH ATA 
armTee se OTTa Tear AA RTT eT TATA aaa TOA, 
aaa ead ala eqeniiat wyauaARes at 
TOUR | wat a sareaadqig A aaraanfeas 
weremat a at Sega; fag maang ean: anrrant 
yam Beara weet ettard ait 


uaearaeT: eHeRT: SUIT Ul 8 

Rava witadzeamraualiasedn: RAT TAT 
saaaearat fanaa men: i ater (72) Bega aA 
eq wasaa, wee (9¢) wegaTEReNT,: wa (452) 
aaa W aaeeaT | aT WAS aa, Teel, figa aafe- 
TAT WOTAT ATA 


qanfevat ty 


aarryenaegn ere senate 
qadatat i 
TT WT: UU 


anfeeritam mgafeaara: | gt Sat atest TaT- 
‘ard oor afet 9g agafead ward | Zarek uattat aga 
WS AEA ti 


ERENT: TIA ATATT US Ul 


TWaitat HH A Teasal Tal Wa Alara 


206 Dect [a2 3a% 


mreneretateasd, a orreanigarent: | seared AH Tega 
aretrat sera: mon: mexfaearel: | Alara: afreanreRsTegA 
usttat ereaarenra usahiars gaa, oF aH a 
far wsiearitaed GarareneaTa | 


ATT WAT MS I 
mean venfiat war a Ueriarwata | 
augahinmal qa: 
areaeaa ita: i < A 
afg deard a egaitrrd at ate alters gz 
ng: faqeeat age: ques a, a werfarat 
wate 
ry 1 
WRT: SU 
satiamatteaggane we a fmiat Fat 
waa ate Usa Metasa Feta: ar: | aa Rates 
AAMTEAT ASANLATT Bra zeaieeay, uo aaat 
a ggatita- “smgamel varanegraaa: | 
any aagegh: HaTTGIGMGa: ” shat 
aaa AAT FATT: Uh eo 
AHIMedaraNiaAe Als weatacs 
geiara: Amaia wate | AAT A URahIa: wTNs- 
iIHIS ZA TAR adaaticad Rolfe acai 
aa. Pravieaas 0 su gf FoR: noe nea gageaT ieee: 0 aan 
equaregera: 920 eareaniRa: MUTHUAVAINSACAT 93 Agee: GST 


eae y ae ear Geeta 94 street AGT U9 gn sia: 
TeT Nae figarnannoaigyeaall fatto 9 ti 








a 2a qae] merger rot 
ooh eiarraGerek: | geodeTa gerer wai aTATA fet ws 
Usa Usrearhaarle amacataeaa: doer | Aare rm 

: s} ngage ~~ 1 
geafarea cata ater gare  agaa: yea : 
(WaIY) geaeaAeat WIA | A TT WSS eater 
Fad | auger afd aaa TaN fa aratate 
Sis Wasa: wasaey qatnranaTeatraeaa, I 


HATA FATT AA 
WHRAy UR ABUT AS UiRIgHIGeA BHAT 
aa Sadia snort armn@ar ceitratarger sie 
qaarAal | AMAIA | AIT Ta ATTA | 
arateaaaia sft aad 
TANT: FTN VR 
Ger staan wlan: aiaqees: qeearcasat 
at Tara wala | 
Stet TAA: 2S 
TYHI  TEARNEENeIMTA:  gaT: 
amfaa: | area a: oT ata OTN TAT aT | Ayal 
eta: vat: eae 
oN 
ae fei: ey 
ag et AT, FRAT, Guar, cant seal 
gata: a aft saat sa areata gun 
Teer a seat at Beta: mI zeal Baier | 
watreaiia gaa we gaafarons ht 2G 
7 afaaeatea ii 


do saya . [a z qT. 3 a. ak 


PUTA TETATT: nesu 
Teaaaer wait ada gels: aa fare 
RUA: FISETSAUTTACTA I 28 
Tageaa BICHNSIA VATA A URlal AeA AGT 

ASAI VRPAA | HIST Garsaaial Hz TOTAL 
AHA a aderarat Tei aeat aarhazaegaarar 
ak Hay Pewee wWeSsadaa IAAT FATT 
aTttigaeaeg waa gagagat aggarat ae 
aataasas ued afer aaonaa 
Aeautaa | RATS Sere Usaha: coracar 
taal, waKaaMiataa vita walt) asa 
Raat: taaasd a Fei Arsenate AAs 
fag sat aradwaneaiaeeneake wrk: i 
FaraRUNgeaearey wary wey WRT Tea aa: 
saercaraaes + at gel aa, waft ww, ¢ aft F 
Tay HA aga wongeas sdoqeaia 
gaa igungied 2A sara PATER TaTeaTAH | 
aay A waite eaeaNET | SaGauohagd- 
fratargag afiagararameaaTATETTat anata 
mgiacaatianndta’” (5. % RRIRY) at Ga eae 

TATAIERE aoaTeMTEaATI TH aS aa TIRING ICT- 
uggaeeararnegicarg, areata qoutes | 
URGTCATTE ea wR Wie = ae mane 
SRL GRILGICLL qinterqaansiaa sary 
Ha RNAaaa | AA 5 fae pe MANTA Tee! 
(aftie vy) n 


MRM 3g 29) sages rot 
waa: geT NWN 

Urata: | sitsrTAt AGE ATT | AAT: 
Tara anasastafaa ara: | aaa ated ‘ aH 
rants”, § oremerreartia: ? (21812, ) seanlg aay 
qerggagais: aes Pati 2S 

CMANAN: TITIAN BHAT ZeATSAT ratte: 
THA WATE stg AY gar am awruaitat 
werTaaTT Tat GT at ator wafa n wana 
VSN Tea sareaaa zi BRA! aaa se 
waa adateans Hat a: Reger a 
waded aS awa Ratona waif sarseg: 

Rasa: fa: 23 0 

CAMARA aT val adrateaennnafaarar 
gM: Zag Nettatnra wah i aa aaqaaaa- 
wa Parrett sia qe saa seaagal- 
TANAYS, TaTAqented fetta, aaate gleaed adta- 
fait sat ae 0 

AMSAT: Ro 

waa TY agal waictaw ws: see 

maftatora wate 


PMSA: Re 
SaaS at Ta aaa adrateraeT gg- 
MT BNI ASM wigan wars vi 


Roe ered [ar 3g 


MATS TATA: UU 


Ata ($3) arezare veaerent areata | TeaaTiaaaeae 
CaN Aitea: caer ay fata vata It 
TTS Il Re 
qa (22) seg cRIETATat | CHIeRINaATaaTS- 
a saeaaeaatora waa i 
4 Las ~~ 8 
daT TTT ee lt 
am aamigugcasem Maatonaa Madara 
wae Ratna a wae u 
3 benny 
AIT HATTTT tl 84 
aaa sactersants SFT YSTM TA maaan aa 
maaarasay ators ea eters: uw aaa 
SIM AMAA M AIT 


TASTT AAT STATA: 12 A 

Vatat Wl agqgetaMea wwe Sie aR 
SMEG MAA: | Ma aeaieAT aaa a wt wa: OR: 
al aatgeheta FATT Q Aaa sada wat 
att aangoa 1 TAL ATA TAT TMCS ata 
AMT Be avercene FSUSAea AAT WaT seas | 
AU ATTAAATANACT TE I TT wit wales 
AAR RTAAHET MAM, WAM aala AAracgr ATT aT 
OaeaeR es aed ACTA ATTSTT: MATS. Sea asi 
era n 





nN 


a se ~ eee ip 
4 Sarid z zeaietga sé Ga A Gaqat aaa ANGaATTT Tey a aaa y 


MRA 9 | sr] aqaTaa4 ou 


CMTANAET V9 Ul 

CATA GAHAN GA GHA: THA geaity- 
wameaaai(G gion: ase nae FB: _Faleeneareg: 
ATTN TREAT wre — agai fearaaae iG as Aaa 
AAT glee areal | oa a Tea aa af aqneatea 
ay gash at aw <araaaau wader a 
wag: THA se: aaacliar gata adisiaaars: 
CAT Ut 


OTF aT: Re i 
mente aTgRTg eaya lure ( 2? +) gee wae 
arata qarala | PATER aie: aeat gear ae waa | 
BAY SAMGIMS mPeareaSgea a at aw aaa v 
STE WBS 
Tarot aya ae walt) oneaa get 
ROTATE TET WAST 
FEAT: th Ro | 
TEA: TeIHHG got as waa 
Sit FATE: tN 82 It 
FAA THT caraeafemeighan ATE Gren 
SH ATT HHATATAG TOT Ta: | Agel: 
AT: THATCH ZI At 
qa TePATMSITATAT li 3% II 
Wan eeTS wa wAgesd | WeReeA UTA: 


qv 


a. 2 T. 3G 32 
Log saga [ 
Het We yaa a 7 Raga ° 
aqrearasitorga arena gat aATa | ate eH 
amatt UMA: eaTas ATTTAT STTT 
AqTST TMTAAN Tati SJaRAeTTATT BAT ZU war: \ 
Ug vgareya vereageaa at AEST aafaraca 
MARANA: BT geITCIS TAL | agi waa 
sauces Gears gencaehs Kara | es TGHATT EATTFAT 
TAR Wat wea TGA araratel 
HOOTAGANATATAT: 
AMAA VA: FA: th Bs Ul 

qaak wah warantaaeral gy waHET ALT 
moat fig gaaeaa wea vada ware: | eat 
| SPARTAN TE GAA Ta Vale, ATERITAT 
aia waaamuagiaa =z amegenatcia Faia 
mpagaea a‘ ada eaitany Bg; DAT area: ’ 
qa vaareaied 


Nata Staeia suas Balaeaaes gata: ota: 


~ 


i a 


n ovey fReftarearzes get was 


fectt arate ATATATAT Mh 2 
Rena ceaatekar aardraasg aera 
meg Batt waa eacariek ate! ae vatsraz- 
APART A ATTA AVIA TAU | Aatararesa Bra Ake 
qa — Marga: wet ATTA | aaTeaTVeeaAT:, 
HATMA TaeIa AargMa araarnfean —aaea 
FAT Teal weaeA 


SUT AAU RU AACATATAT TWAT 3 
grads gant i afeneas ae wtder 
aid a eMTINg gaa saa | wes = TRUE 
VAT HTIH Aaa | waar SUA GABAA 
TRMTETRTT ASTIN ReATART a Wate saan 
eT Tanainat wot a denhesss azar | 
FaU—Wafsaaant: wig quar Rac Say 
wvaaTTTTT CATA: to RRB ay 
WR RAT Aa eae Hy ging wei VeArasway 
qagistaadt wit: wT Ba Le ATR 
Tata sae IAW BMENafla: oz Tae Tet rsay 
qeATTT AAT wi: Te a TEAL N as araig 
Rencataaigat: | Bator q Tater | 
CANT TUT: TAT ST TRAIT a Tit array: 
1 RTA Hater waTsniaa, Fas edoreq: 
awaa:, nfag Aeaaanisat ena 


Qoe 3qagay . [A204 ye 


Ta: TT WITT: WY 
aR We aaa gm ata acat qarat Fadter 
aahet a ena 
rasa aA UY 
wig a canal gacaftar gen: carer = fea: 
wader gat a eal sa Hasereaa wat 
Vasiewega y greased wags Tara wa 
AUT at oTeT aTeReT eadl ala a areata a oR. 
Water i 
WSU TTT We A 
aftran 1a at ara Sea a sar 2 aa 
wR Das oETT a 
RaeranttaaT ws i 
TRTAUTGAAANANEAATA TATA at 
adtara ufseaarea ear sadder 
TT TET i < UI 
waa awa aM aft safes: grea 
Talat gata waht, Fae: Tapas 
MAT YoRAT FT WOTATAT wala i 
feats ea: 08 
Betameea fercasresaa | Wa (33) Tala a 
aa: feereaens aft saat agnidaed sora 
UN | AFAR gTATReeRAAAT 


9 F Ase 


WV T] EC Eli Gabel 1 


qa data AGeATS Ut ye Ul 
TAMER TATA Te | qatrareya 4 
Gernaaaa: 1 agerseya a RUAAGEA, TIT 
UATAQeIATA AUT TN Beraracatl TaTeEAR 
Ola gtameshtearer Gast sera aaTeETA Taree RT 
SIT HAT Aa STEM ATISTAATTHT UMAR AEAZ Ae 
ARFMATATAATAI HAUT «MTS | SIFT 
Gag BRUT wa aati aaa frasar olaarieat 
NAH Aateat sls afaaearat sadist ada 
Ten) aa agi:—“‘aiSa: ae (2) alstate: (9) Begreat g 
Fat WAG Geaaiwat Aa ah Be edu waa u sare 
way ater Patt ada aaa gale = aaa cee 
Wad AIG HAeTHANI THAT AAA | CF Area 

we aa weal aaa” af v 
APHAENA: MAA TTATAT i 27.0 

We AaNeea eae—aae agatatan 
water Seared. aot aaah wrtat enfea: Bega 
TpragINes HAN waa | ANAS seEAAMA: 
areal Tal aaa] aa A waa wanda: 
wUTATAaaaa ade «| ITT aa arastaded 
Tragaite sorta | agarat HAM aaqudaaagae- 
waa: TarMaatrausieied aaifer aorta a 
AGATA HAT WNRCA BAIaAalsRraeagararanay- 


ee ey 





29, dearest 


Ro oer eee 


Jen saranda gat sa AAAI she 
arat wat: | aA sera: care: | Betaeg wae ze 
qa SIAAAAaT: wa TaqlaaMaTAg AAT a 
vat naa aat anita anda geraacateaT- 
Prodeana | agarat wornrersasaaai(ar | AzaTaL ATT 
Faeroe 1 aftaerak sernt arate 
an wafer cH ead aavenaigzant aera | 
RAT watieneadearnsaaeaa carseat | 
aa a acne —aaigqeesaa sent aaa oaawE- 
Hat win sft aaNaaMeG Bees aacisteadan- 
aia Gadi suseiaaat at Aa ast aarat 
faannat cafe: RAT aeMATBIA Bez 
Meeaqgaay NRTAgENeaTAgaeA | ATA ae- 
BEY Wailea Ul 
Ss lan 
aera TTA: 1 22 
SaeqaSes: Wao * qelieaeraaaaaEt- 
Is BTS Maid Tera afa Arquilssaay 
mya Rae | Agegeaa wragdanngeaaTa 
Tard | aa Gragaifeaay wnag ages cad aa 
GUAT: AH: aasraaagaar saa RET: aay: 
SRA SANE HT FTA 


@ ASMANTAAT 23 NI 


a Atal cH: oadt i aa a om. 


——_—. 








94. Fara Raa; 


a2. eye] aqasreaay, a8 
earenrdst aT Urea AT ATCATETaeAT aaa AAT 
RAT a ase aa AAeeAT Aa | 
HATE at iar seat aT RAGE TAN 
ala favia: 11 
Rent TIAN ae 
IMA aAaat Tat aenfa Hef A GaT- 
wags wafer | ga aanara ageataagi—ammtas: 
AUCH! TACO! | ALTA AaaeY TTS: 
BSA aMeHHAed aan eat a) Tat 
UIT A BLA EMGAL Wi AGMA a aes 
Wah TEN RAT | ASEH BeawEaea za 
FSG li RURRATAATS AERA Aaa: | ETT RATT 
ATI Tanna: Waa AATEC 
wale! Maeda HIT 
TARA THAIN sl Baad Stara: 
SETA | AS VENTA Zeta eareea Tessa 
7a SN SeTEM oat vata atat gaat <aifea: 
ARHH SAN water | TAU aaa aa 
qa Aga seH, aug, faz, Aa:, weak, ara, 
aT:, HAL, TAS: aid ara ORCETA aATTATRIHSTIAT 
vated | gages wan aaTAReta Bast zt 
weeded | feuaaeia (42) Beal ge Beat TY 
weg weal Sanfasaa Roliaaaarneaaa -zaaai- 
RAACAHTAT Wala | SieaTHIH: | HEATH eI 
qaat gat waa Tey aaHeACAT TaeAgs aac 
uel eat awed sia vatnigar fara 1 og 


aa aq ger Nah Reis ai 


weaag ada HAT AadATE TSA AAT 
mea aRTEAgaat gaat RETA | TGA 
ATRTRAY ea: Far ALTAR atea: HeTalA aT: 
RA | Tagraakia qa Wasa SAAT Naa 
ag wee 86 HeReIMAATETATaSaaHATT 
HRAAITSA Tiaier | aa aA aA Gafea—“‘sretaey 
qa WAT Geese Rat | HAIMTA-( age ) ABI. FA- 
(8) aro: NN SeMaU Bary RTAATS TEITAaICAA: | 
aay ns aaigeate Gari g” 2ftu amegec 
HABLETA EL asd aarmaer TaTaTt 
qa Tew at Deg a: wa: Raat 
ana a1 wegen aemsaeasas uaa 
Teg a ae ae ea a qeafa 1 onfaaez 
anata ext waa” Zi 0 
IMENT TAA AUST AE: 94 H 
waeRea (32) wat waeysaa snesisea 
4 Sge A SAIL eaAaagdlaeaaies vada 
Raga aiaaraitadaarat Peantoraaratiatn ag: 
MARU WTA AHA WAU RETEAT UN 
PATS: TIM BS Wr Wt 


AIA Bora Head | wERAReasata- 
fainter aguarat gear waft i a a Zant 
Ratnam xggeqaéy wena aarant 
aut Sara AAATRATATA TS TTAT Aa | HAY 
nrg aeaTAT ae 


Ra. ge 20] IPRA ™ 
OeT THT: AAA Ml 8S Ul 


‘aa ame fatarat FATATAEG: | ATTA 
aya aRageala TAT vata, Gaaqamigteg 
Tema wat’? gadiarait: afreagietat a 
AWS: | AW g Arma: § TRETARTATA fet ara 
Taal ATA RAT TREAT GeTIIAA:, BST gis 
raat: aamagh:’ gad gaa aI 
WAR GeaETAT: TWAT Aaa Sit 
earATTT A aaa 

FST TATA Ve 

mage Taras Sarees ae 

RMA ATA BAMeaaea Sra 
FTG TTT 2 

WTAE HAM ATReMATATaY | AAAS. 
WaT aT: eRe aint at sea 
grat fsa ment att amgareal way | 
SUERTE Tat aaTET argent gia ara 
WeITTA tl 


» STRAT THAT At Ro 1 

Waid wea wa wy gee 
ami feat aft cat we aimgemgtiale, aH 
We aa wa a agauia: satiate ara: | 
Sw YT FS——“atrgl gear ar ' fgarat Eearaa | 


14. SWarsia: 
4 


a TqgTAAA [ o. 2 a ¥ ay Re 


waraafaergl gat aemkat Wat Uo afeaeg ga 
Far ade asa (eh Adora Har geqaaar 
wa owe aa Aa seat Aonronieraltea: | 
efeatrrqiteg wes garg aan” eft 


PASTA FAINT UU 

HA (s)) AeA AaMyeaAa | vaRedl Ufsraa- 
MIR aE BMATAUM Aha aE A 
Waa, Raw Rue eat, Fens fen 
arighaed Ba | aM Tea AaHeE agazat aaT 
asigatt AqAeAt a TATRMATaRAaY TEA: 1 eagaag: 
waarat sRMaa aaegineadggna | adicqaraTh 

UGNEM AgAVAUaAggIA NAA siagwasea HA- 

Rad Aaa — 

ATTA: ATATHTT aaa TSTReT: 1h 
TUMUAMT TW UR, 2B, Bw 
ATMA TAAHETT TEA | RAT 

raaTeg: BRAT ATIATETT | sieeregainaguera: 
agate: aanas sat fAfseraa = QraRegaay 
UZ | HaReqde Haag wat 1 ane uaa 
Ge ATA UA He: MAA | MGTTREReA TaaARTEAT- 
TARTRATE Qe WANNA aa a areas 


ea anaeat: TATGRAT LAT TATUT ATA TTATATATS Hao 


Ta RAAT | siaqarakaaat: Rdiareadisag- 
feuaaa zata mara sate aenta at aka sy. 


AAA] aga a 


Hor arat genta gemedfearatearee mA 
sgenaon at | aa weragetra HAN, APATSATAAT, 
WaAATAR: ART, qeragrearatat aqemadita Ta: | 
wit = waagdtaasaneticat «= favetafiat | atte 
fatgareth: Guitare fatgerat AATMNRAT TOTAT ZA 
Yat aften Sarat fafearat aaugiat waTans sqeRAT 
TOATSNATA AT AAL PISA TAASA TTT AAA 
qdtarga: quar fgeiragaiaa: AUNT: FAT AACA 
SSRATTT on wpe warta | avausitat fgacnra- 
wamiaant sarreat woraraafe fayasasi: aac 


eaqriaioeatcica tt Graney | | wae 


afareagaaaaray | AiaKeNReaer FAT, gra 
gard Pata aaekadinwieas ¢ ast ute. 


fagead dtarg 1. cigahtiaiezel: ara waa 


ORIG EEOC CCA ii Sie 

waRaaag ferherety a afrewaterensi- 
oat RAMA Hats | SAT Vale BACT eqeao 
al giaeaiat vated saat Erantcirenaa ay 
WF waAIAAaAdTIsEA eat Ba. 
aft smercese sa fea aad: carne Raa: | 
aa aaa areneat zit deat aataa | aa Asia. 
gar agareaia— ‘‘saeregel... awaniea: v 
BAAR T UasaaHNg: | AarAaaeAarsa 
TaN ANG Fe We T= el l 
qeuenent Ben ESL ” sf 


28g STATATA EM 87 My 


TT ATA TAT Nt RG 
wa etrorgerrarafa greet arerefet a trea 
TMT SARA HS AMAT TATA |! 


MARE TRE FICE: HST: WA 

areata (22328) aed MAEM Tera, Tetteae- 
(23:3) Sea a cHaea 1 tenis fgarargaraes: 
RONG Hae AAAI TAMIT SIVNKAIS searia- 
ten vaera vite: wat ee: vadtaacar zfa eared: 
teat | afta anaada watega a wena ata 
faagea cela a aratd aden wraditaae- 
meagre satit sada ‘ag are-( 23 )-ifta-( 933) 
vett-(32 ae (52) ara: aanadtaeaaneonancii 
ata wale cat eanarat waa san Tah ARO, aeTT: 
Wg! Tae AAHTA a HeMarasay 


TRUER FATA SANT: Re 1) 

ARIE HATTA AR. AAR grees | aea- 
fet wargea aaet adn aan: gran asa gen. 
WOsaA Agee wa at MAT TTA: 
aeay WS aN aaeT wOTat aquS ate 
THEY AAMT ATM: Areata: 1 arTara- 


~ Cami and 


ate HS Headtag ui 
aaraa art a oftaea: u waite 


FeFiq u aeitsaar un ae—ae 
ASTRA SH eet A aT at Ray aya) 


HAW YH av] aqanaay tts 
aU: aagent wae | ATTA frat aft faFreaet- 
aeat wafta | gro after wafed | raaaferqerrat 
ae, Aaufemnat ga, aa aarreqrarqarrateeatg- 
atagi wated | tat aA Fg——a aqasan Att at 
eararataaty | eaftadt ae, gaat et, ae aA: | 
ATT TIT BTR Mt ATA 

faut tae AT AF NW BRB II 

armemaaragia oaAegenat wat sah 
saat Ueaea | aaT a SARITA STITT alt ATT 
HOTA, FATT AA STeRAT TOTAL HAT | ata 
ara | ze wad Sitter sara fatzetate 
afd, aavatenrradaiquggemiaet ca edet gat 
TARA HA 

GA FM TATA TWIT AT UW 34 

aaa UiararaR: | Ua BwMEgw aia age 
fRrem gat wat | eta samege w welt aaa 
wat watt 


HAUT | BRU 


VahaMANsasaroroAaATa san Bar wala 
Fangs g agar wadierk: 


fasaraq i 39 il 


UAT AGet Sal: sreareaataaan | wrq- 


en: Che 


Re SIRT 
ATH 
aaTTgaITAT AAMAAAR_GIaNAA 
. ead. aAeat: Rear: 
paige SufeaT 1 SRG ATATKIA: TAA: waata- 
:atata: Rageareret zo Tet ceaftat ATH: 
corett wiaatagataa Aa wfaaigTa| TG aa 
sitar ; § TWA wea AAA WAT 
afe afaavdnttorg—aragararst 
, SECO HICIDE MRL E 
arat Haars gat aeeatarat Retareara: 


GATA: Ut 





Nn orer gatareataed Wer: aTe: Nt 


ay Tasaarat FT AT Wy 


ceafearegitareaaes gad Te UAAT TAIRA, TA 
mat HaTISaT: aaRdea 1 ele qanAtaAtaa- 
gaa aida aaeaa | TAR GAARA g=aa AtAa- 
WeeA TW YARIGH Teas | Maat Arngeg: (52) TAA 
aearara Relat Arras: Gaeqarsi | TAT aA ATHAAT- 
TRIARTHRA Terral Haw tata Bard ala GaTTa- 
aiaatigal Wade Mardiaeartarsaey area | 

STEHT: th & 

a-(3%) qe saw wna aed faesaa 
aaa a (33) qaaea fAafgsaa | aaaedaca 
tad SINARA AAR TTRTHa Be ada Bar 
wan wadita Bava: | aaa erata zai 
Gta: | dares wa Saat eas ATT ag AEel- 
UAH TAA A MATA | at a aut 
A SAAN Za A UAT: Aaa gq se 
TATA Re SaeHaa git wahaa- 
TR BAN ZartaAaaaea Wasa AeRam wa 
fae |! 

TIA TAT WRU AETZAAT Wy 


9%. 7. Sawasgaag: 1a. BarA seq... Sw I 
q. Wa... JSST: u seas TMENS Taq UA. FABRIS Ws 
? 4. az 1G VA. 


bie STATA (3 3w1n ey 


UTAH AT iS ASIA: 4 


qdaagameada | aaceaatay SATTAA 
ARTA GARTH a As ada: TATA aT 
wadiaaait at ait ata Rental oat tage 
TA TAA VaR aA BIER a aaATAATETA TROT 
Fe Waal HawgeeAale GW AsIII ASAT 
waft 1 woRigecna: wrataar ad aranaca 
HAA Wa: 

CASA: WE FS WS A 

wma (32) smaenafineka anges 
waged (32) wat caraq=aa Waa a (42) aaa 
tara fgeaa | PeaadaigarenTae aTSyaT 
Wai — BIA: THEIATATT UREA ZW 
RiRfgerarAl Tal RATT waa wa: 

SHIP MATa: yy v li 

ay earranfien ea aerTTaTgTAT | was 
Rand 1% Aad eaama eA Ga aca ava | 
aMe- GI WAAR avai RAAT ay 
TAMA AAA TART at gw: wate. 
RRA = Baars t at 
a vara aguatindt aa: RATT EAT | 


5 Al. & oft =e a. Ws8. geet 
2 WE a. Ga. Ra: 


Hay ve J saat ae 
aia aaccuaredl waa | usoarenfafet waa 
argada aff fa taeaa woamteat Ga AAA TATA A 
ead seattaeaiaadt TT seaaeaigatiaeear 
PATTER aT ad ATS AINA TA FATA 
ATATATEAT SEMA: TATA 
. rant * 
aT URATTTMATA: Ul ¢ Ul 
wuaTaerg ARIMES CAH Vegas alea- 
RA STAAA Ta oNIAATaG Sadiaeaigad WsTeT 
aT was T Sale Aa: waa eI a a 
US: CHARA aa: Maid Ate Wa A TATA Fags 
AWA Ga SATA W BIMIANaA ees aMAlaa aaa 
aangugaggiatta dara: | aa A aaeaaa 
qoaaaey aqaaegrat ae amaae Fal aaa 
eager: Haaa i . 
A caesigaons ey ae . Os Z 
aa ifteatat AHAGATTT: WA 
GaKARd tar GAA: WAG Aw: Tae 
a TAGE: wa a Gey a waste 
ange sigada git Sarat 
2 LN x ~ ; 
VREAETT TANT HIATT: N01 
@ da Waa and cord fAateeaa | a zeale aa: 
WAH MTRAM AMAT AACA FRIGA TAVTTTA | 


VaTAMMgdTaqaeaaeIAy YRPAAGY sated 
TAA aT Sat Ta wart aT: 





1 ALR. PAD, 2H, Raa, 
oh 


(339. 9 % V4 


aR BqTATA 


errs | 22 UI 
Raerrgeat aAAAH seta, TAMToTeTeATt 
a aang | aa a Agarrnad waar varietal aaE- 
vgs | wrANATY aaaagy qa FaaAAgT aay 
FAT TST AaeANA Wareks 1 
TUS: WATTETS: | 2% I 
waymMaaeastiine ata fAfesaa 1 
Velaeegral BAAR Tae qaATA a 
Waa TAAT Aa YT aMAnadaad tard aq ga 
Usag Vadtiad Tarek: 1 
hi ~ fh 3 BoA ‘ ia 
WiFTTTUTET SAAT Aart: ll 23 i 
AAG AAT Baivagaea Seq, We- 
(3) aegrargal Cala Fe- 32) TERA eR SAT 
4y) wea yaaa | aa a Rieagdid een. 
qaaaanita aa TRFARTT alaral asada: | akc 
3gd Geaay 3 aa ws eee aa: RaSemT 
TAATAFUIA ATAU TaRIes: alygte- 


ea edtaa: 

TT TST FTI WATT ey 

wags weadargada | Betaaqda: eared 
aTeTAaay saedaAaaT  Telay ae uediares- 


1H GAS BANS ed ET A aT | 
2 8 AS FF GS aaa, 9 Tog. a. 
v ALR. %, 4. UST 4H, B71, Sa RAT TTT a, 


WIM HEIR] sq AA Raz 


Seay aaa: Aras aC AlaTeeaTA | AH 
awa wa a anita | wae (G2) Te 
qfaraa serena aT oferyat aataett trae 
aff Srararreaagitda a Reg: Teta afa 
SIENA | UTA HAT ATTA WATg aT 
aaa lua ea gedtadit giss GUA: | BATA 
eaad: Ratatat fareaactiid aq: Sata 


fiartasaeraad arr 
MEST UYU 

ftquiaegrat arargqea Wedd, caw 
argrat 4 samaad AREA, weRETEaE aT Zia 
aanaaguamnnargadd | wag = wang 
qeqMantag git wgagada aft dtarara: | aa 4 
AMAA GUAEMA TAAAAN aa as Yara aearake 
qe THe at esate waavscas sae 
wat waa i aa Ga wtnat aa suits aa 
gases at sfeateia aaaataattas: Hat ate- 
RATA: | AIA PAA wWaraataa: 
Td, Saaragrgate fSraa: aq 


TT THTTAT TRIS TT Ul Ve 


GeO MCC RICUICGICMECELLOE ECL te 
Rae sraea ATTN Tequgqaay as ave- 
crema Ts GaTT aT adiere: 


4 A. Tee AAT. 





[a 39.9% 


Re UGTA 


 aftreaa ay fagerra: eAeat 9 I 
qinargaatt | ARErat GARNI ATER: 
qanearatat WE TAR BAR at ea GayS Adal 
aaa? geen: earmdedt ae a eareie at 
sfiqrat vaedia aah | sadtaagarearadt FeTATAT 
fatraeg ara aale arestiat aa: quantal PTaaeaaA- 
MARAE aRAATaRHNa aal A AAAET GSIASA- 
arasaag Aaa alaaeTy | 
AAATIPAL PRAETTMTAT | ye Ul 
TARA BETA | Ta ( Gz) BEGATEAET 
TE CPC CR CCCCMECCICG DMCS 
falas | Basal waved qeAgada cat 
AAARHRURTERTMTANaT: «AH RTT 
aat at gaaal ae ema aaigies carafe 
war: Aaedt ward aan: 0 
aq YAIT ATAeds7{ Ut 8S Ul 
AAMIAAH CHATHAM MEM ANAT H A TAA- 
aaa Waa aa: erage yaa acat yaw 
qagtat ran at Gaal PeTieh carat 
ate wat usta vated oftrraar, vardiered: 1 astgree- 
ata seat argrarorgtat TAU Ut 
aRawiiaesa Te aes oN a IT vag 
TAT Ty: Xe . 


> 


say avaqignal, 3 a. 7S we RR AT oF ZA vst: 


39 ye a3] SUFTAAy a4 

qaqa age aeaeea Vagal curt steaa | 
wane (3¢) ata Batt cart Wear zit tar 
Bre | Roe (G2) arearreaeal TARRY aaaeaT 
Brad | TakaTaaRqanasiat | Aas 
FSM FSA: aca seat: | Maeaattaa at ws gran | 
aM Meanaenaadal aqearacaaas, 
etd eari—uent great aa ataa-—-aa_ gt afl, 
TU THe WY GAA WT TT aft aa 
Saint wardens acararat ara Way ar 
waReUTAT waa aaa a feaay ganeg quasy ay 
a hae sara: fg asat war wade ward: 1 


GeATSTHATAT UW 82 

THC | GTRNAAA | waeAT- 
carnal Belt gt sels +3 aa ge aon a sae 
AAAS aaa Bass wee sa Usa wares 

CAAT FHATT 1 Be 

SRA Talageaigeraten Tae | ee. 
THOMA UaAtataaraaAM: | aA at 
% ukigvecayara ai vaingoseity a- 
Hosea FV awMeAT: | 
THAT CATT HEA Nes II 

STATA feels I qa sk ge a 
Med Tat HELIA walea it 


| %. Sasa, A, A, FB. 7, Sawaal; — 


Rad) “sagTAAA (% sa, 9q8¥ 


BATAAN Ul VW Il 
SMA We YHISIT DATE a war 
Raleat vated 1 
WITT BARA TN Vy yy 
aa arta arate TUTE Bea ze 
@@ at aa Rarril wWatea it 
ay VATA MHINT: | AS iT] 
watt weey gwAG | a (52) Fear earl 
fafgeae Hey Wer pared WAI ay wat 
waTeT wars | asia vada waa 
Guat Ae BF ar aie 
UA: WS 
rate, Ra gatas: walstdast 
Rete UHRA AT vata , 
TTIRT TESLA WAIN TT Nee | 
Sea WS ada aga acazacy anitsaia 
Races aq went garg eRAAT uM wale waded 
eal aT Hart 
quEvatg es tI 
___ Saltaraagaita aim: TET onigaaa 
9 ae oa, agit. ee ae 
2 eG as ceed & age aleraa | a. ary Wong. 
2 A. waif... arn ealate i 


¥ @, area — a; 7. TT sat aT, 
4 4. Dae Vay 


MIU 1 32] BUFMATA ato 
watetata sete aenitarert aeataferdaiteata- 


gee wear aaniga—aeel Aes Urageteseyanan 
al aaaaa vals | 


T UAT ll Re I 
ae wagarmaalt wy guueeted aia a a 
MeAAA Bae yweate va at Aardifa wat 

GAT APA TAT GHB 

GaATIaT AAT VAT USAT AT Ul 32 I 

BA Wa wala we agaaaadenena-( 2S ) 
Waa waR Maa aA RaS aaigHvecat fq 
qaiatenanegreatcaa seca sft aterm: | 
WAAAEA WAAATATTAMYTaa | WAAATEeT wag 
TA PIAAMeAARAMNE WHAT BY card aca 
yee HUSeat ARTA af BAI adieafe aa 
watt | wae: 1 RRR cared Tera 
wagveat SaRaATtiA FATA getanatentgerann- 
Fala ane cata AA ATAETIAY sTVT aaeeaty 

AA Waal waediea afaaraaiea | 


ASTHIPA! WANTS Be UI 
TARA aAlAaIS saad | way aaa ac 
qaenaqadd | aRAgrecat SATA | AqAaT: 


TAA TuTRI ade WAT Ta Grea Aare 
TAgUNaa—sqaaes at Bia | 


TTTETIS Alaa qatarearser ere: org: ware: 


ae qeftarvars fetta: oa: 


TAT aEREPAt Fret TTT 8 Il 
munaragetaaatrreriranraa Galatea. 
Ted mere: ore: ae: wafda: | rgat Batareara- 
mrauraaftiargaiagmaa qdiaearaeard ata: ore: 
waa uo ast Renegrat warars faa (217122 ) 
reneiairnary softer, sryar aerate wzaA- 
woaty wart waa aeae—-aaaaarreaiala 
Wag fe wateat, Raa gale. seaeacaa sae 
wire fa ots: ary:, Agi at; a wer sft | aa 
(e8 ) sega sea taTaeIa Ta-( oc ) si28a BEAT | 
aa A WURtaeATY yaaa | Ala: 
waate aan (4S) am wat ufsieasacs: 
qaaa lay ages get cars Rul. 
agae— 
CAST: TTT WW Ul 

_ SCR) Re Fe aN oT (52) wea 
Waa CUPETd— TIRTAAINE sEETE sa sa 
weTTAEMTTIMEMAA staat: 

| BRR RT EE it Aaa 
ee SATA: WR 


Re 
1 GPa, 2 e. 71. Rea, a. AIT ie 
3 A. aaa, 
* %, SMNITT: 


ee a STTMAAA 2R8 


Petaearrer wat TI aA ArVat (VWZo) 
ZARA: aR Hata: BAA yeas 
matate: wea aa: | aifqrnaTe—yeary 
searfzat | yeas ada aceon ached aT ale area 
yea zt ae a Agata atagatrard 
earete Ragen gy (21212 ) eerie sre eT 
watt i 


~ en 
Rerars TTT FT WY I 
WRIgygada | TAT TWN: ARN Real SEH 
Tae aft wil a angitien aft ae aarghe: 
TAT ware a a wad 1 aaa CARAT ATTA 
was Wa ATATSH earat ez af Sat a Aeiwat area 


RATER: A wale 
~ eo : 
Uraea: WeAAaT Wy 
yergyada | mraantele waa weg eta fgam 
aa Tae waa (G2) a Sew steray oF 
(4%) ara grat aig waaiain agree easwat 
4 dried aft qeiatiia wet warahead waa uv 
Sa years eee Batararaaftafsa- 
fhimrearemngartea owes eataa| YR—( $2) grey 
ARAMA: CAA | TI A TaMTMTAAs acta 
ereaea: HeT aaat gat |e qerarea- 
9 A. ATA. 1, CATT 
27, agg, 7 Angell. 


qv 








RRo BQH [HWE 


eurtrerta omemmrenaa a avid aerate 
fereamanamaaa 3 dtdterreangain waa 4 
wa meray | tat waa zeTa: eat | wae 
Ryterters — daggrifteniqaagratd — sarerTy 
FIA | 
aT TAT TITAN Tet fers 
FA. TATT Ut G,19,le UI 
BUaaeeyeAeaseuay aAgdTag at ate aA: 
wae waa ata tary: careers Tet AeTATg: Fat 
WTA: Fara  sisar waaigetagdiaceng: fqea- 
TeneMae: aatiar Yan wana gadig 
TRL Aa Taal aha Tae Fa Ty: 
foqigaarata (8k) aft ares twat aaa 
Peta: car ca aeeaearra (2) genfeata: 
Hat A Aigat ata: wae fdgarsaaz ( 2218 ) 
geatentar zeae @arniet: 
wiaTEtay fata u wit 
TSTy UN MARAT 
FTTUTTUMS Ui {glee 
Taran ie wath atrsagy 
atariieeta cosy | at a auekaat at 
aE gt TURATES ay stare ater at 
Frat ae Rata cee wage = aRUaRAR 
2%, 7, aera. eee ga a ee 


BS a Ry re | saat Lae 
aa daafa a mang | aeseters Te 
rms at seqaygetat FT agKaters we 
aaga a Aaargaat nu agr aearemigereq: og: 
ftaaamaaachattia a aa THRIRAM ATS AT: 
ey 
aeaerat TTT i 23 Ul 
ayAl aa gal caaenfgazasat  aerarfeay 
qungdaadiwavsy sariet faut sathigure— 
agala BuRauamandaesaaatat «Ft aTeaT 
faad wader 
aa Frerarg hey ul 
aaa wieteat acequaanaal = wealesir 
qatar faa vata 
ar amy Re TT Bes ETAT | TF 
FRAC ANT UREN | 
Sea AlT ll 24-89 II 


aaa TIAAETATUIA TERA | BAla- 
ea ong: figigtamaiiguary ‘ seadteactat 
aida’ geanlgGasar qtimearenata afetanieaie | aq- 
cargrat nifaigalensigatatd | aorare: ae gerayy’ 
FN: | aaMFAReTeaay aa aa UiaaTR- 
a wag ae ae Wea ate tdmy: ema, ae 


1&4, aR. 





AA -, Saqaresry [H, $4. 2 a to 
feat Rettegn aff weg: carta a ae Bend 
afeatar ate sreaarg: earfafa faiata aftariea: 
AAAI: Re 
aftaraafiay | cagedarnarmn oead fig 
Rea Aw! «=| fRdtaearas aa aieaiaeariag 
Way RAMsraMaaeat ai: alsa: | AAEM wa 
HAAN AT AarawNaTaHA: WHAT Ul 
TA MAE ELTET Ut BV 
REAP WRB 
arttarearaafeatgatitg aaaeay aig ale at 
We AATARA sla Beaty Rina eaeRATTE TA wala | 


wa SATAN: oe gaat at aes Aweifa 
HMMS: TAT Ul 


TITAN AT AAA Wh By | 


canta rag TAAAETAT TA TTA | wats 
TAAAATAAAA SAHRA BT A | AaraAacagiam 


Toa si rary TTT 
Raat afiefeaa nettara wat 2A ward: da 
ii N 


WATTAT Rs UI 


wagweay ae Que cargaar aca sve 
eae ATE eIaTT a RAATATAT HaAT 


9 aera waged i 





S32 a 39] sues AR 


STATA T URE 
BUEAAHAENAeH TaTAT: FATA RATS 
TRINA 
AT HG TAT walt We I 
wadtag wag way wea qSAEA: qadeaaranta 
a@ Tel wadiia ward: | aerated, wawafacata art 
Bead | StagraaaE ea a Kars sft aeaTeh: 
UWAITAT: TAY Wt Re 
aaRGates | Hens agutacag 
metres: n 
ANETTA ALTAR: | 2S A 
aga = gTaTao (R824) BIRETRaTaTaT0 
(RUNG) Fendaag aq wnamieeansad wee 
aqearaarg: HAI | ale waqeagadide adtara- 
fensaiaca aea at ef: carate caranferasawes 
WOT aeat Usegat a cara @arek: ui 
aN WeqerTTIT Ul 30 | 
gual WREal Aeat TRET aH ay gateroas 
Taaft aa a mail aa aed ae aa wae 
feat a warate mUisraEGe frat caaae werk: 0 
PITTAATET Wal FT N32 U 
Teierate Faeguae gw: eae dhe 
a vata 


4 4. G83 aR} ai, 
2%. 4, aaeat agaie 





he aqaaaa [H 3 2 & 98 


SRA RTAUT Wa Ul 
wager ge Tey AEM_wad | GaqeH 
FUE walt sages warateaa: 
RUG CAUCE EUG EL RCA LE 
faqs Ul 33 ll 
ae sraesatieet a carats acnat eared 
We— GAtased aca at atrial aéarat aea- 
qMat al Al Lara 1 waigistesla AaaeNnt sar Seaea 
TT MTT ay 
asada Beiageaa | an a aad ale aa: 
tarde ae diver carat at eat a at aa 
wea WN ared aera a odasieana 
Maga Fa: ht 


Mer Vea a4 
faa (32) Sea sae iam aaR WAaE- 
ain: warate few at a eae: 1 
CHAM ASMA: FV 
CATTAT tt 8e 
CH WAT a WA aTMEN aan arerHrenea 


CHMAATT TEN RUE: Mae KAMEN Area 
AC Tad 


Oa a) ] sqgUTAAy as 


T Aaa: | BS Ul 
SARA eANAAMAMAT AaTIATAT -AaweIl- 
oO Bay 
STURT TL Tara: TATAATTT Ul 3c Ul 
Zaaeea Uaasaa | Gs Gants FT Aes TaTCATER- 
FIT BUWTSATTTAST AGT Tasers: |i 
ASTANA ASNT FA TATT U8 i 
Bdttema ‘amo aardeeaualaareaara: ’ 
(isc) gw aa cae wa | ete ae 
fraamte— ASAT aad FM AY Tdararat A- 
aaa faa vada warek u senedtrare — 
ATI Katara ewes 
TURE Ui yo it 
edited eae IRo) ARATE 
eae Fe ACT oee—aeaaMa gar 
gait aay a REA FAUNA CRNA wa 
RAE TEMEAW Ia HAA FARE was v 
UATE TAIT TAT vy? 
_ 9a aftaega went ugatda qt waa Bate 
WGA T AHMET | TMT T AAAS ATTEN wat 
Tall aghagary wangMgdaenty HUET wen 


a | aTaTet:. 
2%. Weaheanet 





Raq gaara [a 30. 2G v2 


HOTA TAT Ul Ye Il 
nearer: AHTMAead ATA Ts ALT Howat 
ate waAmeTHRNTAa: HUTA TARE WAKA 
was TIT FT il V3 Ul 
awaweaadaeneat sa ws ACHE ATSINgeAT- 
Ag PUI wens corse vadis aah u 
PBR AT AAMT Ut yy 
HAS AA Used WME sa GNEA al AAAS 
Rytineay Hwa wate wae uv 
aqate waraagae nye ut 
Fra ara WS ALT AT ae aT AeA ara 
FA TITANS waders 
VATA Wye ti 
waNgiVakerarmensa woreda 
WET way eatay aftearexagET are 
aa YuUIeAT: YuaaTeat caais aR a uae 
ware: tt 
TYAS SAAT Tdlareaaed Bata: ove: 0 


i sear qdtarearres gata? oa It 
wqarrat: Taq Ul Ml 

afraraatiga | amaaAat: wqafagentearag 

rtaraatarrguane feat Faria 

qaMaaat Fal TT TARA 
TNTAITTT ll & Il 

Bataan =| ifarerared- 
Hagia Baral aevasa | BWA Ge aaa: 
Tara aa Reid aat ade wareat at aa Hana 
MS UA ATA AHI: TaeaaT Ain: TaTate WaAT- 
ait Aa eafeng ong:ftaeaeneaiteneas: afa- 
meat warafisatagain: cal | a amaAAaT- 
WAR og Tal sera aAMAMAY agEaat aca 
TE MEN ota ‘wgeriiet’ aff gard ofsear 
aEaeTE ‘APA HA se ALOT HAT aT UsVaT 
aad? aft ae aareratra RPA AUEAAs 
Tama see Waa wag za 4 

qaraaaeas afiareaier ot ae cAUT AL 


3 
fafa waa ht 3 
rercaredeateaa QoageerHeMAVT |) ae 
SQ GHAAANTT: «= WaeeAIE ara qata 
>. UaPal, a. UaTUaPat. oor 
2H. Tae, a. quraqi, 


24. (BA PRAT gaa | 
vd 





Re qaqa [a3 9.3 @ 3 
AAHSRA ANA THGTATSAT ATZAT aerate 
wareks 
aaenfe Wy li 

aqaaega fPaedsaa wage fader 1 
aM TaN oAaaaat Ye aeN aa: TRIAS 
diay eaay oases sean vara Bala acta aT 
Taieat TFEAAHTG fgetianiag aaAA aaa 
afamea: aftargtia aft ware 

RASTA ETS WY A 

ferent wad faaenigasnt waedy- 
astra frat waaad wai 1 aa a 
BUIAAAIgAA aE a fed aut a as 
qa gael Wa aaaratiaa: fae faattaca 

a) aA aaae eaaea agents faa wadiid 
area: 
Ta BMAF TT GU 

aa—( $$) alegea oS HET-( 5.) Rega Tea Tet 
(32) aaa a yaa PaTAgET A 1 aat ~aaeiaigeng 
il ata WS a RATaAlteeAMe Mal faq wa- 
fafa gare ag at adie: Sawetteg qaagel a” 
( 200128 ) aft aaa soeaaeafa anit | Rg ‘ aa: 
Ba? ga aie aa ae aval Betareaai aa 
an HA RA aA Tela TeaetAtYN: 


4 FFA 
22, adi BN HWA Wa eA 





Sehenneeeee 


R39 3H 90] STFA 3 BRS 


HT WHIP TTT TATTALTT |S I 

wmaaaa (22) en earaaead 1 saat 
eOgIGEH TOON Bw alt AT A TAMIA set aeai Ait 
aT WaT eeATET wala I 

HT FAITH TIT SAT lt < | 

Safiage aged Fgat ga canara Baar 

amy vats ui 
Fal WERT aT Ns Ul 

muerte weitiaeeaa as ua 1 Baa 
Waa Gera wit saa asa sade 
aaAGe at Adil aaa aa at oT get aera 
fate sitet gaci earfeeata welts: cara 

TT VAT afsaraia seat eat 
8 ATTT I 20 Ul 

SatAigeagEn ea quasi wayeafeear- 
ae at a mwa ge aT PATA ART HT 
Wet waist aaa | RAY aa aH am za qarg: 
BeRaTaATs Aerts eft VaeRaEE ata as 
wad aa aT aaa Bd mates adit 
wratalt TeMIMMRMTB RATT eA TEA 
U0 Fe arte | Quafeanramaiveni afeaateeaT- 
Glad: sitaaeaes aT ATATAT 

1H. %. Risa, 2 
2 A, RATT, 





’8o : aqemaay cm a4 y 4.9% 


z avi TANTS UN 2% Mt 
TORS aqEH eT geet HUY | 
et Hees WANAKA ALT BE! eaqq | 
adamant ada qaaeda waMAIMTETATA eo ahy 
afaa atareanea | ot vat aatata tl 
Weeai feraaty | 28 ll 
HUAI Usleet W acat fasta waaay 
wad | Ugzema ye ata Weiitaceg a 
aaefat aaa 
UE srzarls Nes 
SOARS caret agoM aa atereat ar Th of 
aguarnact wala u 
qT Tftaea: they 
wag faite wg aft at a a Baca 
fag an Aare AMA es wan 
Sqtarat fey a 24 II 
wae igi faaeat aaatgeat ata qn; 
Pita | area g goa aaa 1 
TATTTRTE: 2g 
Barta: FrRgT aga Frat TRA TRSAR 
aa! atftainnens a“ aatata: ka A 
Randa wyfteamari: 1 ad: aut aaa 


Se 
9 4, FOIE; 1. a, Bae, 


S 2% 
R33 Bre] STETGAA . 


aie ene afin gar” TEMA ATT 
areata ; 

TRI ETA TAA TS: Ut VW tl 
suaaabaas aitaeat: kata ugeaan 

aft ama ugaaatnigar wegaraigat aT 

TFITIATN 
ay o7~ ben a 
Fa AATF TUS ATTTTTT Ul 3e Il 

woRAREY Ugatieat gerarteaney ag AeA 
qeawlaega: WH wy: Hal earaee— saktAteere- 
alaaal ($$) ala as aeHIgeEAATAaAA IeUaigal- 
aa: GWT AA VAUEAT TITIAN aaa 
aaRTA ATED Tega | aat og vale at ward 
gad Cag ag aaa aT aI ST 

FHT ATA aT WATE AKA Taal vara: 

HT SAT HTENSHISTITAT 11.2 | 
wa HY Med Aig— waMAeaaEs Reta 
AATEMARA a AOTAeaATT CHa HVSET- 
HRANAA WAT gqae ACT WeqUTAT 
VARTA FISAVSTFALIP 11 Qo | 

wa TTR Tei watedted gaa) wi 
(o§) ata fgatd aaa aay (2°) ara q3:, WA 
aie Tag Agr sat TAT: ABR: BH Stal GaTETTA 


LAINE Ge. ea. SS 
2%. Wea. 





ABR sqauaay [ 3.391. 3% Re 


AAACN STA | AAT CATA AAG ATT: I eTTRRTEGATT: 
agerartt | aa a wgreraad Ags at afearii- 
ARI Ay aft Baer TART qoendisameda aaat 
TaHAMAATgNa at cae Raga: Ware: 
UT HATE MR 
Batemans waa adearesacat 
Waaters: 
He ATTATTY Ta: Ul 2 
satiaigireagra Fiz aieea gqued aferaca 
TT AR Asay Fei gw: cara i steed TWA 
watataagar aaientaesaartaareat ar Tala A 
IGE CEM CE aict oa ee 
woRiremageiae oseq at aem aa faa 
wa atadteat awh ward i 
AY VWeasraM wares — 
TT Wes AATTTATE: 1 ee I 
wareaigera ware BAT cae wR arenBacat. 
fr ar geaaT ; 
Bont ° : 
APATITE: Bs 
aaa felt derma sf: fafaal waa 
avgargdna At Aaa sa aeRisTaey 
Ugaarat aa: Real trate— 
eater TOTTATS: EN 
eatrareea areata sad ata-~( 22) sea zy B1zaI 


Ha. 3 ye 39] agar 98% 


RETA aaa | TAT A HATCHER, ATER TTS. 
fPetawe sAsre: feerasag sora Tangata ALOT Waa 
BAUIAS FA: Ail . 
uqrigeaftrarereng eeguided aaega (43) 3H 
tat GHSG Teyeta wad AGUA FEA! ateaea \ 
AM ST GMeTTH oaTE Aga Aa Ald VANAGAT T- 
araita: 1 gar eAaeaANA ZatAeuas gaat BAA 
4 Bie: earaal gegaare: aaatra AAT aralseearisya: 
wate arrears: 
AT soSTT RII 
OBA SR agIgRaR RTA eT oath 
THA? EMTs Saas waa uaizagaaea | iedta- 
MATERA ARATAAAATEHE TYE A- 
a aay uae gaa ame Ada afa aa a 
arat aft UsqvergacqusrcntereateT Ty TaN 1 


ela TATA Wes, 
mage Adtt weageaal age gest amrgdta 
aft aaa wat ala Raveronaaieg: tara 
ER PRATT Igo 
NAG gaa Savage ae: earale caageaaeRy- 


TIAA 
AAT Tea Uh 33 Ul 


17, Bary HII a, 
2 A, FANN. 


gee ‘gaat [a 3m. 3 ae 34 
agea: tara ara aft adtareaaqeeratg—( $3) staat 
qaae TITAGTAT Ul 


ait Raw aR 
nangetaragaaaencam (08) afte 
TSRATAM ATTA Mat alt AaTAEAT! AAT A 
Uae saat aa Ts sal ala Rad Gaga Aateu 
ST FIV: N33 Ul 
waRAReraag gas SAKATA sel Ala HITT 
fat aeat wala 
farsiaetnifeat: bay il 
AA ARMA BAART Ha aa afagiearata 
aq erage fed ara | asada carasaata | 
watarigar, Tete aie wagaals eae | eaeg— 
wafiisigerag gaat aaTaet ach ala adidas 
ART aT HY: waa Ha ‘BR’ afa we awa 
‘ot: ” aff agaeamtina ean age ar Ataa- 
TWECATH ATA: (Cholera ) B48 APA SAT WA 
say R she 
Ta Ste: 84 | 
x oN ~ 
aaa Fad YTS | alee FqMidaaR: | 
sarataay gfe Pea | ware arash GaN Aa eaTAT 
Ma: carafe agiasrTgeT gy: waTGaT | 
a eee ee & 
1 &, aa) Rada, 
2H, Ba; Zara. 


yan 5 a ¥R ] sqarqay, 284 


fet TN AR 
Uae Alaa Gg gaa ael Aft Ze Barges 
AW Wad | 


qa Ura Rararazs ll es tl 
Gale glee ama fadia faa aft fegere- 
ars aaa 
WAN FRA ll 3 I 
wR sivteadtatia: | wate Fest BAS 
Qala waaeadieea seq HReaed at aaa 
AY Heras Rae 
BAT THERE 1 38 
Gale atgat wag Baia pafteaca aon ealata- 
qq Ae It | 
TI TAGATE: Wyo 
USE Figa surg Pale Teas qaavgens: aang 
ge AU wala 
TWN BATT VR WET WV 
aaa wage caida geaa aa caer 
Maa sare (OS) ata sea Bae Varvara 
Aro aT TATA. 
UH WHAT UVR ll 


9 WAN Ea; 7, HAL. 
2% SF Bea, 9, edad TR. 
ae 


oh saga ba, 9 9a ve 


nara aaigdta ga ait qatar grea 
wate 
arial TAT Ye 
ada aaa carte Aqrananigzaaag 
wey: Tae, uN 
UeeTAi Arataaiarrigia: Ul ve 
aaa weal: Hata Raat fan ait aaa 
Bera at Bara g eee UT TATE 
Mawes Wass: th v4 ll 
axa gaa aaah: fers wagqUeFATH 
aad |i 
aa Tous aaa aS: tt ve 
aad a Reta | antgataea MEAT Bara | 
aaniee cases anfedia aeugradaraa: 
MAUAAEAT: TAA tt 
qT Dell EX TARA FT Uys | 
qaqa Gaara aay gataaaatg arate 
afd arvafd—aat a cate Beale ae ae ate: 
earaté AMARA TET TAG aut waft ge. 
TMAtIa: Aaya At: AWseMTEI ara: 
anraaiaia APA 
cos ~ 
MN FHeaaeMe ve 
RATS Wag fasit ~ as Risaaat 
9 a. 8a UREA. Oia, i 
QA. Barn. 








WIW 3 we 4a] SAIMALAH 89 


Asrra: dia: ealafa ARaTAe— stenareatfaa- | 
Agingqecrn aaqaway = FSAAVTAT sifeen tt 
ALTA FT 
BUTE TTATT UBT RATT ERT Tc 
TT Tas TT Hater TaA: TT 
fratt Ww es—3e 
SHIRA ATAA SSAA ASIASAMN Te VATA 
qama awuBwesReaacaraneaaa fete 
ala | AueaiengqTya satay caiag dist Hara 
afa ura. feat af aa faesrdt aifeatsen- 
atfaaat wera 1 


Tae UEraeat fans uv i 

qaueaadatsr aAaremaaned jaa | ofaH 
qanuda quarfauan w Tela | ale wat: Baal waarie- 
Uiganraal sarararensaeais feafa: carats 


Ramat aa: TaTaz 
TH after Tea WME 


afg daa cremarentiaainiat aearst stat ate 
TAMAR HY: FATA | wemnvadtreangat Teteara- 
Prater TBASIAAIATAATAL We set Ta Rraeat 
tm aid rid ui 


= 


. Rad; 7. Rae; %. Reig. 





gee Saas [a ae ay 


aqt Ft Tih: 4S tl 
aaa BA carat aaaaaaaina Gteteg: Tata 


SAY ALTA Ve Il 
SORA aot sreMATTRTAATATCAAA Sar Taal 


ast wai Tfataeg 4% Ul 
adarnnrarraaaia Ar start SATAaT TT 
wae sara TaRaatseaais srarAA: | 
Heagaal VT Ul ge 
afer wa 4 afraresaargat aaTATT: 
miaargaiea | Ut aRaT aTaRTRTAA Tt arate rae 
aan: Ce SeaarAg: cangeas: aise: 
gonat aaareat wala 0 
WAPI Ul G2 Ul 
eahartat Ya ara aaN WARM Fale | AS TA 
aft wa: arefiqaightantagerad wig RANTE- 
| AAHRTTAMATSA dae: Aiiaay eft ‘aa’ sala 
Ota: ata 
AMMSTRIAT ATT USA 
eet at arate aft asaraneat aarti 
nN 


9%. 4. 4. ig: 

27, Biraay, 

3H. %. 7 wae tl 

¥ % AMS: FI li aly APART Saag 





397.9 & ge] BIANAAA 188 


aay Fam BRAT Naa MI 
cafiaist ava ata Bela aa Rao (22) aa 
alaar afa aftanie wa card tl 


aqTy Ua ell 


TARY alareATTHeT Fara ( 2&y ) arate ear 
faut vat 1 armarntcearagarat Row aga 


adtfa ara: 0 
~ 2 
+ uw 
Bat Te Fea: Was l 
<. ot as = 

Waaaea wasTuAg BAR | aA SAT Tea 
Sater i wat aenRTeRe TS ( 32) ATA AaM TATA 
RUad ae a saws gaa Kad cafes g 


WMAVATT AG WAM ARATT Acta U 


TTR TTT: NEE 
eaaUey FeTET aaa STAY Fae seeauatay 
Bay | AM Weaaaragad WAAC Wal: Heist ai 
ay aaa ata aeeaay cor at figea: cara n 
AAT HATETET Ut 9 I 
greed eaqara flaca a eae ay yea sR 
WagUeag TAN BAY | AI WenRRIeE ATT 
a suedaaniatge wat eed aR get waaeT 
ait figaa: eartata ara: 


TT TRA ATT Wee it 


9. TA A 





ae sagas [H. 3 aL 9% Re 

gave aame—ateraat weal Ada ate Fata 
at Rye: Tara | 

HIT AMA: ke Ul 

ae aa ara: earate anfafe: saga: aaraTfaa 

AT AAT | 
TT MAT TIAA EM ll Ve tl 

afg aaa wat aa: carate qetaerarten tartar. 
a HS aaa act aaans: seatafaca naataa- 
HUTAG Ra AWaIa U 

AT 92 

CRT ATATHRAa SiST ATA Ra TSIeT 
aerated at wR: atasaeMaa a a 
soRaTgaA Het Hag 0 : 

HIT TUS 

amiga aisha <a 

BUNA HoT | 
qrTaT ATTAT 93 ty 

aaa aa aeMAs aA aeVsy q deed 

ala Rata we ea 
TT TAT SY ArT W wy 1 


WANE FEN | aA aT aerAeANAA xe 
ATAU Tee SAAB TAaTTsAT THAT | 


a. 3 ah 3 qe ¢2 ] sqgTtaat 94g 


° 
aqaaat TNT WO Ul 
AGAMA Ts Head ACT ays THC TS? THTTRTERA- 
Rawaeawk: | aa a aetMaAa Brenda aaa 
Fe qeyo Wangnaa aaalagg: VATA | 
aT WATANT: 98 I 
AY PANAacaatgaat Rag  adarerai 
Ararat Veet Reds za sat Hae: We: ~— 
HR TUTITT Wve tl 
aRaaaagram werine Atal aa 
uae HS araiaanki waa Heat Hoeediarsaa 
RAAT U 


ATaaediay We 


SS FIO Ae 


aataagigaad ula enfea: near Hoeai- 
qraaa arid: Hara wararania uv 
SUCCUEIE HCH i CM Cha 
WATT MITILA | HS RH TAtaeaTEs 
faaaaiag i 
: S 
EST FI Il co Il 
ARATE AMAA BOMITG Haha: 1 
GT: TAA: ll <2 I 
AAA GAA Alas THAT grax: 
TIA TA UN <2 
APIA TATA LAATG BUNT 


dad saggy [a 39.3% 4 


aT Tara APTSEAT Ul ce Ul 
aa ala male Bela UgKRareaaced fare 
dRepeaa al: wares (asa | 
ia r) 
wre feat aT? ce 
wa (22) aa aan ug: gai earafe Peat: 
RE CITA 
ems 
Wa RATT: UW <4 Ul 
wa (22) aa wee ug: kgat ea ale ata- 
HAT GRIT HAA: TA aa yA gounaaa: 
HAT WU HAUT eoHenisal alats Fag Ul CaAA- 
Meat ATL Ste STATA Mt 
aN ON Las ~ 
A AT FA SS EATIATT Il cs ll 
ange (22) aad earageda | orem 
aTaae UE: Real carata aa aaa caraterat 
BGs CAAA ARSA CATA as TaN i 
Tl A TMATAUTT | cs | 
ATAAHTNE Ta ( 0%) AM AAA UE: gat 
ear ARTA ARISTA HAG! STTTATR AOL we 
fqerds ora ae a afet Og ral Savard a zea 
Lal 
AT TaOHT UAT We 
arnarnianaa (to) aa gaa ue Rega 
Tate HagaEM Me MTS eRe 





SVG Ue] aa Tea ae 


Ie TINA <3 It 
arennrentarepes (= ) aARTaal Ug: Aaat 
RUNAS AHA AT WAT | 
Ty arent: etl 
_aTerRTERT EEA vz) WA glaat tz ga 
arate Tarant afterargtat vy aa er warrgga 
aq A SUT U 


qa ata faearitrEeTi us2n 
genta weasnedada | ae wien BAta 
wa: aat carale sieualiat vaagaant aaa 
aan a a: qaufhieaarsatiiaaaa ii 
TH TTT 8 
ag wa: ata raat earate facdat naia | 
aaae wid: fg aania eae seataada- 
Bee aaa Testy 
TGITPT WET W838 
aaa cagadt 1 aff wa: atal 
aa ATH AH TRI STITT BA ATA geAHa ualt aaa ate 
TTS Wa | AA TAAY FT isrRagvage- 
aqaAgata: VITA 
TATA TTA ATT: sy A 


aig eA: aat aal ara GB staat fen are 
eee eee ea MN 


. 2%. 9A fig: 8, wager, 
Re 


aug aqaaaay [39.3 & 5y 


at aa ATA 34 
satay ae aaar eaon at ae Agia ag 
HRarqqada Aas AAHaAA: CATT Ut 
aT qTet TgSTA: Se Ul 
BuRAwey ae aa wt at aye aft: 
Tas Waelaat Cara | ageaatet aad 
AIT TTT UB Il 
qq Vat UBMSMaANTATaNN = sa 
AAA WT — 
gat WIS UTS ATT 
AINA 1 Ae tt 
TINE HA HU FUTaHeasa AVA saiara 
TSMC ATAMATIH: | SATA MATT BME aes 
QaIaTe ae wages aera Hr | awaTa 
q Wad Wal saensar wat Faaiad 0 
VATATST ERAS AT 32 1 
AUT ATCT SRN HI: Weaala Aaa 
qetanng ‘aiaea Tea Ger aidan’? (wieIey ) sta 
a aaa aftarigaana | aaa ate anaes ara 
aaa aaaA at Quad Aaa BUTa aga 
oREvaT Sqaants ata Bareaoflay 1 
n~ 
| ATF ATT Ul Qe 
SARITA Eat UTaET ATATETET 


3. Boa Waa UST aesalaor | 
a. F VARTUS wd ANB a 





WIM 3s Baer] sqqagqaa gata 


Hroneat aa aaqaqerareat zaN raeifareat | aaa: 
qaamanis aataeaerert areata faa: 1 


faaeaTg tl 28 I 
ae quae alae Farrah AY At We. 
ZUT Teeter award wadte fae acta 
Tas awa Rat adie era gest sarah 
wTas 


™ 
AAA TST: i 2o2 
aie quae fai at aed ears ae 
HAUT TeIAAa aaHraecay! sasrawse: THraleNta. 
WTA 


AAMT MASA: 1 Yo 

Rare saa wi aA a WTAE | 
AANA AWAY CHATTIAA | AAT A BMTAAATT aswel 
at Veaea GY aad a wad ada wala aay 
‘quinn’ grate oral weet onfsinacka a qdtaasae | 
AM TW GARAAAA alld aaea GAM: AAA at. 
qUraeadila Ags | TARATFaTTA: Tatas TEATTEN: 
ara zeae: 

THAT TM Voy I 


al TATRA Te ARATE ata get 
ae Wet aa gra TERA aad | aat | 





9, ¥. Fata 3 &. atbraa 


gag waaay [ 9. 3.9. 3 -& Gor 
SAGA SAAAATHIATNS TATA Aa TEA 
feeragn Tacettat y 
ufaer aftarareata tt os Ul 
Wasa GARfAAIA GAIGYsad zit wilt | aa 
a gansta earada cara afe caagha wacte ca 
waar fagnane: aft ara: | ofeega 
aaaniearen: ara—( $2) aeqer ceaietates: Il 
TITS TTT | 208 
ay ferent aaiaeanat at faa 3i- 
aid— waraygerarrangaveasaa ol. Aaa 
. Bava oReega a aaeer ater | ae a safeanrg:- 
wee aggdtaT qaaaney at aarat fad vada 
was 
Rare pi ies 
aa TTT ATATAAT: Ue 20S | 
manasa Hass | aaAH ae 
Tae aga waa aeard a ote acaar- 
amawaaar: Aira: 
Paya IAT: UW Yoo tt 
wigs (3) gaat wenageaa aa a 
Tale aaaeeana fgdata Gravaea Fresh aaa aeAt- 
TAT BOTT ae Gens | wat afa-( SE ) 
Mega UQAYKT | TAT I ga TeagalaeAl AA- 
Aare ag Tea 


4, % @. Wtaarai, 





A338 a a9R] SIFTAAA R49 


aTAeaaA: KJ? tl 38 Ul 
HAN ATSTTeaG ALMA ALATeAT ASST ATE 
waft wnat a oan eeate—— 
FIAEAT ALTATANT MN 2Yo UI 
HTATUISA HALA adie wy BARAUAgATA 
fAfseaa | zat a ale qaad aL arate aeaataz- - 
aaaiiar aordfiana a Raegaraaiit alareqaaat- 
wardtaet: 1 araca~( “2 ) aega aad aa a 
' uatgattiawa wararaaia fafa eaeeaaita 
waa ti 
MITTAL: FTAA: 22 UN 
wVaeda PAE aeqeda a qa fAtesaa 
AVA RAT Ratageat Assi i aut a 
uae fgets aie Rat aad aca awutaeshagiit 
Trenter | ata varaga ead waate aa azaul- 
AeMATo Arena i 
WIELEPA AFSTTT | yz 
SraNTA Ragas | UESATIgAATT az Bate 
qa 4 ag rena aa ast (42) aa 
PATER Wig UgAia Hosea agar 
awa: | an a ageugdtaargst ara oe- 
BAAEAAAT | qantas great am waa Feta | 





1. FG, BARA BATT, 





Me ware [A999 G 99% 


wrenrterest qeftr | wan efifor earnfl aah 
qeerey Hcl anda aeren Gerad: 
TTA NW 3Y3 


qa ($3) eta qarngeat | aaa sata 
Foutay coat const qeynrseamaeaaras aretata 


wareds ut 
HAT TAT 1-222 I 
racpueely “oarargt? aa afta” (21217 ov) 
Rawr gaa: ella a WaAACaTAT © 
fea qari: 0 
TATA 223 U 
rag a Tea «© wasrasdaea 
feared adaft ‘Saari: 08’ gen@astraat: 
moa Aare: 
ta fagedatng—-amarasamtiaaa we 
arat ARalaeeeraarca fazer agzanrarat aarareai- 
qer argatarrangt ara gets: ae: aaa a 
wergeat aaca saat qa oftear: | 
Foor ARMY TAIT: We 
WAAL WE TIT Taras racy | 
Maa ARAA ALATA: WR At 
dtatarat aosear caret ware: | 
AGEN ATA ABM: TINA 3 0 


1. Fa. Faye, on 





a > a 9 a 994 J agate aug 
Wat arreraETat ‘TEAS’ FETA: | 
Jaarnfinn: eaedat ‘aa’? Fatwa: wy N 
Ateavartrargean aferoar: oferta a 
wader: eager goagat ayy its il 
arat fausaltat sasedt Water | 
aaatearaniaeat ggat fry: aat qari & 
aaTAeaRaTAE: Req ATTHTAMTVIT: 
TAMA Moora: BAMACMTZA U9 1 
aadaaa (ara) saawa war Aanaar 
fader freger Rargiaaaatten: i <u 
Heats segargrean=scar uaaisi: | 
Rreaaraaasdaedl TeTas  & 
aa: aay Reawg Asai war: | 
ES ~ ~ 

FRNA WIT ArIFTASiwA i 2 it 
nalmarrearala esa asa: | 
HATHA: AAT: wee 
Hameareqaeqiag tae *agaly 

AW A n alr ; 
CTSA TS A TAZPa 11 22 1 
goagat waaen ‘aga’ ff aa 
TATA: ROMS ATATAM: WB yy 
CA: AHA: RMATMAT Sa: 1 
WE VUAATA FAITH | Ry 

~ 
Tae Toa (SrgTTE) HUA aT gat 


—_—_—— 


Usa Trae (HA) THAT LATIRT TAT Ie MI 





bee sages [asa 3% 454 

wen fig: dey arererrageaT | 

anctardt aeacont frearaeated aga ¢% 

dat RaAgaareaaATeATIATS HA, | 

Raatdon fonerg ‘qsrara’ agidatn gw 0 

‘aaa’ at deat azar Aalatea | 

ariaeaeRaas a etd AAT cl 

alagaauata wRisaagar | 

qacaaaat deat eater taaae 2 

ata UWA Bara AAA 

Sfiataca ware aft: gaat u Ro 1 

AMFSYNGASA TAT THAR | 

Raraaeaigiaa (Xoo8) qeat alfa aig NTN 

Guinreafarsayt sears after war | 

a 4 aay farava faSarsvaa uv 22 

faaraniseatargdt Rete waa | 

Bacay adiney afasHAeET zs 

‘oreasattan gaaea ‘atitarateaca = 

Haat wag AAAI: HeatSsa Wl Vy 

za W Bat Heada crea sexe war 
arate careqrarafafaaacda aaraaraara aaa 
Ararat wanda fag. a AR aa earraat 
seqead aa fags aqaivarared Acrdteatera Aare 
TAI TeMaaeey stare: waaigara: Faara 
qlangatenta water cera 


Somer ae ERE 








3 +a 43 | s7gTaaA 848 


wa FaraEATAeT ATA TGs 

GaN ya: TaN RU agMeae Aiaea: WRU sraTATgsay- 
Gq 0 gated we safer far uy WM agIe Ie 
Sea WU gare yslersTTa lH GN ATEC OM aTTeET 
| wou Ragant wen at Weed Sl eH 
sqrmag Yo i ‘Baaerart array mde u Ve aa war 
WAR Ua sAT gereatiforad 22 a geeiats aRTAT Ny Ui 
gafey “omaat: gata uu adaftare seared “aeREraTH 
UU FaaTAURTE u Vou ARIMMTArarararaaeAa 
We Garriceraaia wks un MeaegIeat a Wl Re Maa 
GRIT URC aa SGAT “HSAs: RR SaUEaa “seats 
ta WRB ea ATA: 1 RY OeaegIeat FecaA: 84 
BATT: WR BA TA RON Te mPOA Wet 
CITT: FaTATTET RS FT TARTS ul Ro eaters APs: 
U 30 ea Ree 82 oT TA TOT RR Faleaees- 
Pas Fe AAT NA Ga am ga uR4U sai 
STW RQU SRA THIAT 1 Vo UW TAY TAA Hooraaks uw 3c | 
MARANA CHAE 3S TeAAeAt wach vO aagarrat 
area: U Yen Tages Aaah Wve Nn eaigagre ae 
faa WY carga wey te fMaq wa YY A 
TAT Ag W Ye Wa TTETaT YaATE NYO suave 
POM Ne Nara eMC |TTEPE: YS | 
AoA: TAT aerate: Wel asgrear: frguaaee 
TROPA WAR PATTER WMA aeaTetaaEaT- 








ao sr % aA | A. TH TH IRR ot. Taquee |g, BIZ. 
3ST, ARBAB B sTalRA TH | eA As | a, TACIT: | 
4 & oO ait Fae ey 1 gw. RAR. Va. aas. car, VATA 
TUMAUCTE § A.B VHA. v6 B. TEAL 99 at, a, Usa gray 
faa |. AAA) 92 |e. ade 1 93 Basa ox g, wy: 
@, 7. UAVAPat aah | IREPAt GRA 1 44g, aRePTRea: | 
as 


RR SqgTAAA Lh SA SP 


eae HU AIGATeSTATH EAE TAT A HO TC TAT 
BET ISICEOICR TIC Sama Te AMAA SEATS SATA TTT 

Area fame Wat cagerrort aorta WHY HN 
eas: eee WY ea Aaata saa WHavtareroa 


aa adtarearaea age: aa: i 
AY WALAACA AAA: ATs! | 
aug: uu ftagaa: sof Feq uu wAAeRA: ToTT 
Ba URN Saaeqa: oo Ae: uy i AVAAERA oT 
qe UL Sree: wo sus el aeaERa OTT 
TEN OU AGRA: MOTT Nc aaa ore TAA 
STARA: TWO WA Su earseRa: wot WE Uo uw Tara 
eqa MOTT TAT ema: ATO A AR BwAeRa 
Mott SOT URS GeraeRa: wot ardaer uy uw graar- 
wrarat fons ASMA WU ATTA goEe: ke ATT 
ques ata SH AAT Wo sisTeMTaITT ke 1 fea 
Was UW Bias gant Haga: Xo u selifira: 
Fra WR Ue Haare uRVusseAwa gF aaa Rau 
HASTA URW TMS araTOVT UY ABA ATT UREN 
MA: PRAT URS MERSANT : URC SGeASNS: wen away 
Nol gagerai Ba ATi: WN ALN SBT RQ WR orgaTEEAA 
WARN AA TTT BV STS HAGAN Gary sy y MATES AT 
Agari Wu Re orga Sa tt Bo | faraenrae Ween wey 
PACATT URS AME SS Yell TOTTI AS UVa BAAS Wn 
ATT Healy Re ATS BTU YU arasa EST: WYN AAT ATA WEA 
ATaT Area WYO AT SAO flarraisaq uv v|e woe Arai 
FRR ATAU YSU STOTT ART: Yo NAAT ae: WNT HI 


1H ST. BAG TA GIA Wad | ka. a. nitaand 
2. &. YACE TaN aga eA HAT NA. ASMA! © Bs, maT 
4ST TUN AMT ST aS a Vises MaagTad 1 
vA, & AG WAG | 











HW RA ve ] sqearaay . 244 


Savers WAR TYREE STSST: UM ees 
mat ater: uy aerated gee a 44 | 
aft Sats sagas aqutearaes wera: Ta I 
AA Vguieaaea Bela wa: ae 
qo: mot aE Cl VRTaT UR maT as 

SET URN steAa: oro ae Yu TERA HIATT IMI 
RAFAT TW & | KeTRS AeaaH sar Wl sraTB- 
TESTA: ici Hossa us geaPreaAAaaT l Lo we 
PASAT Ue UwTAAPRTT AAS TAS UL BAAN 
UH ue uerrTeMTONg ata: THON EAST : 112 Yul ePIAATT 
TOTTTM EU FT TAT UR SU TfTTSTA AAT Voll BA ETA NT ci 
APTI UWS Tegihatss Aas Rou aT faadi- 
ATU RU Meas HOT: WR uv walter: URRU SPA: EHTS UY A 
Has 7 GT AT UR wares g PRAPoTITAA Tess 
Seat WRU AH. Sasa aa aT aw awerainr. 
Pra W Re aT TAT TREAT Vara ks i eaiaaonr. 
Fag oe AN Rou VaTa eae Re SRaHTE arrataa ey 1 
UU VT TW BV TIPREAACHT | 22 yraas 
SaaT UAV aR faaeaitaee on 34 1 WaSEEAT 
TUR RaAEMT gar aN ysaEaT aa: 
N Re W ATAATHEET TASTE URS ARE Tea Yo | eae 
SET TAR: UYU ATAATAEEAT GRIT WY TELAT gay: eT 
ARMA BY aMTNgMTARTTT WLM Ng aT ve | Bloat: 
ay faraaaif i vol SISO: aPseens 1 Ye i aft 
ata sagerast TqafearaeT Ata: aa 


1S. & pee fiaad dane a. s wena wieaaens 
SLD SB. RL aR Reagan |. 9, aa: wT: WGA: Wy se. |, 
VENHGN § TT. TUSSI nv |G. TAT aie Sawad yy =. u. 
ARI TS ot. GRA eaRyeaG Hae sg, Rawazemn da: 
gaategea az: u yeAtIEE saaaien: u KetaceT 4 || game zem 
fait @ 99 Sa. serra a 











aie 6 gaaaraae a oe 
ary aguiearaed gatas Wa: 


granada oltre n Qu erefrorre nn stepraa 
femase: sree Ue OTafeRTAT WY MN Tae Ferg: 
HEMT UN AAATTTT uN se Me AeA 
aks wh carey ise: WS oF Fe Ro MN Bia GATT AE 
Ue aoltan: ea AR APT areas WLR TraTigecraar- 
HAA yu ada acoso da A MN aTearieer- 
afar th US Ra MAS WOU TAGS VHT Ve Ml TAA 
SATA US HOTA ET UW Rou AMM wu ae 
Rare kk wae Ue seTeTEET TH 
ASE URY Wee gree da ea RYN afeae wae egeRaa: 
WRU FS TER Wo BA fae uke aisagrAat: 
aigeaT NRW za ATA au: ee ATE waaeTs Hea 
areal aint Sku geo WN BRU eAKTT gem ek 
wags au Wu gasegeat Sear na BAAgae 
RIA URE MAST THROU Ro ul aa gals Test usc 
wae srt eiorer 83 STARA N Yo qagEeat Eni 
aT Yk aa Re UVR NMEA Ye oTaER 
Gaet | Ye ARRAY oTaaTgee var n ve aaa 
SRMASTT | Yow erinreat wdeear WoW WET WV s4 
sISTEAATTa: Mo WAS Ae Wk N mganigt daraeat 
Hat BIL TARA ETT UY: TITER TAA: WAY AI 
aa oar seat aii ust vaeB daaet ye Eat 
BIBT MO STREAM WM eT Ye 4 rat 1g 








1%. 7, ea Nk a, ee. akg MN aeaeaea ait: 
WG: I 3. SM PAU YS. FEAT |, PRIYA w. 
TA Ta atone ng ot. e. SIPEAATATT: Ue. a Brel Rua || 
8%. e Mangan un BAY saaegss adauigdoy SARA: Wo He. @, 
AARMAAT, We |) 


Reqs He 190) sagTGAy " 
TTEEA Gov AH goraett 4k Mt fA TAT WAR | TTABA NZ MI 

amareter (FA) a: nan PrainaeNTag WAM UL ATS Pat WAIT 

Rarraaraged i ou qatt apraefteaat Wee Ml aagaot- 

BRT 8S em new weteBAE NOC Tat ATaE wR 

WT HUT WR Wg ATA OY BA ATT OY NTA ARI ATS- 

fryar i Ok N VaR aT oo | AR ert we un aAhaaT- 
HT TNL SA Fert sill i co u gaaaloy ack UF 

aeNT CRU qatraioy a cea afenrfRTeATT It cy I 

TRAMAG Tuc ge walrgzse ice TH ARITA cy I 

TA) areal Araged: ceil MAB IG se 3 Tal TAAMICAEG NS «ll 

UeAEG TUS Sal eafSaaraaaal us<u afeaz tory Fs 2 

Ga BUTAAT Tu SY aaa TOTS un <Y UW AraATTaTy 1 S% 

TASTY FAT BATAY | So Wl ARASASTATA Ul Se Ul TAT 

TARA NSS Masa aay Woo APA Taaq po Cli 

agarat wT Lo8 i aerate {oR aafaeai 
TSA NOY CAVEAT AAA o4 wea TAAAT 1 ok i 

CH AAMAS NY oN SAT ULocll TA SPH: LoS TF 
TATU CLo ATTA HA WLU TTA VARA 
arasaeet yates V3 0 waaay eaeiaaay nv WW aa 
BHAA VV i HATATT U ULS WHAT APART wv VV 
ATTA Lou AMAABAT UN WS TAM un VRo y 
aafaretees: WAR AATEMOTaBaT: ukkR Lona 
BATT UW ARB i SASKATAAT: WAVY TAHA HV aarat 
TW RYN SHAG AITTgT: WARM GaAs aaa 
BAT: WARM Taainaaiaeg Pia SIMA Re i gf DOA 
AOU ARS Ul afta a Ro nea RATA TWA gal 
eqraey Tea: 1: 








fisn 


<a. %, adda] 90 Se. Avan aa ge. ow, aae 
Aasaaas 92 A.B. WS edeaq 


URE gaagqaa {a*u*r qa 
ae aguicaraes aga: 1g Ul 
gag yoo Lu Sealy Pag WX 0 seater 
sqnedt: gaia ua wegganat gas wn STAhMATAT WM sar 
 fadcorg un & WAT Te Feat wou Taras uc Aaa 
east: WSN BTS TTT ster aT Yo NU oTTETaT sre fatal 
+ aaa UNL areaS soles u WR uw aragharasay 1 VV Ta 
eataat: Wen ses oatigatrdara : UMM TEA ArT AAU 
HY BIST: | Von Cama Tass Lou Wasa WIG, 
URS u MARIA UW Rou ST MT: SIs URW TESTA UR 
CAUCUS SISTA RZ Aaa | RY W ST YS- 
a UM SRR aT Re i PaRgMaAtatrseqgolegug- 
TAA ROU TAA BAEeyga: wei sat Fava uM aTara- 
Gea A Ro TaatET BQ aa AATATAG BR TaTATET- 
TO TEVA WSR SMITA 1 BY SAAT WE4U 
aft Sa sages Aaa are seahorses age: 


Wa: | 
N aft Stdequaaa aaray i 


ne 





TSS Waa Ma 2s. a TIAA ay 
Pera 2 ry u RY Re aasast Peaaan are aRAces 
wae HA Wns a SBN & a, TPN Y &, & aareraR 





wort ofeSre | 
Weft: 
Naa Sfataaanitar 
W At AAATEAALY FAA, Ag 

SHANA: TEA CTR: Racha: | 
adinditad Uist acal aie aera Ne 
ae fee: Eager aes: 
sumed Tat ered fat meq NR WI 
at a4 feat eared Raced faa ae! 
gem ea faa art ogeaeraAITA: 1 SU 
WAQVAAMa ARTE: YUMGA 1 
ehaMaTaae Aaanis fs uy 
AUS: SH POTTS: | 
aeraaased Gears sat As wy a 
qagane at a dae ARISE | 
PAINT SITE UMATASH HA i Su 
EAT SITE Bw a ‘Ret ae | 


algae aa 4 Fae AMAT Ww 











4 Ha soles | RAR 4 Ta I 
2 a, epelrerae 
3 Ralarat ‘Heaigth meaaes eargqee: g ea 
RGA TARP HANA; |] 
APA HIE ae Tay GB | ATAes | 
gas Fane: Ta: YHA: FA: 0 
AEA Fae ae Read 
BRGY TNE A OAT RE: 
ata. Ta: SSN | IEAK Tava. 
+ Raia | GAR Ettag esis Hig: gaaagar! 1 sea | 


BG Ratraqanriea: | [a 9 WF € 


wp: waaeaeg Wt aie aera: | 
aaa Raa art ota gat axa Uc 
qaqa al Aart Tarsy waa | 
rearaaraea Parcy UMASS AGH lS Ii 
wy agaal qadt Aaa | 

CE Branaeaey: ory ats aftera: Yo M1 
medgseaey Usaea fers a | 

ad a4 aataiea sae frat aaq i 2% i 
HUAI FAUNA BASaesp re: | 

ay BUCRG RE HATRAASAUSA: th LRN 


SHUI GR alas a fara | 

aaa aaezea aia fairey 22 
eae TeRATKAT Gat | 

mat UPmeniaacrarad nat alg i Vy ti 
wea ‘eaein: Baaray gt get ae 
weguata fecar areaq wat aes v4 
warararad fasaret wean ATT | 
AACA AAS Ul APATKE Wag Ve Ui 
SABATAATAAN AT TAT: A: | 
ATATSAPNTES: HAA: PAAT: 1 Vo UI 
“ate saftat wi aaa at Raat ae | 
aed GAMA PaRHBadA ecu 





9 & Ra 
2 |. FAM 1 3 q. aql } 


, SE RAS aa adereaRarsegemng 1 sala 
eH aa erie aera NARI Beet A sae 1 gaa 
WATT TASH AHA TN? eA oseay qe)! 


Haas ge. 39] 9 Aattaaari tear 248 
‘ . 


—. 


staat Amato arr | 
WUSAMgAat Aaa: UW VAz 
Hodis seared ToT: 
ada ekieaed NOAA Aa: GTA NW Ro y 
grad efiaa st asraia SI are | 
afe dea asta aad g asa 122 1 
‘diianga: wart we: a g avte: | 
STSMAAAASTASTgVST TAT UR 
aedeal Tat SaraACAHANT g | 
PRY FIT CASITA: 1122 1 
Wee: wait sclera eToys | 
ag earae agreed ae Sia ey 1 
WIS Daryn ea | 
aaa Tiget ator TNT 1 Ry 1 
WAMAMAT: SOAS Parca | 
CRUE F Tdiay “SATA 1 Re 1) 
gaa age aremat gaat | 
QR ATA: TAAIAITET | 1) Rp mn 
Ferkanal d wasnateey | 
© > > Son 

STEN Ua Ue HAT 1 Re j 
af FUraNg Sar da Ge aq | 

N SH. wo PS & 
wees a ss PIT We 1 

¢ ~ xn 
aT ASR SA AY SYewATAA 
wa GH aa afe UTS ae aay | Ro Nl 
WaT Fe af Ue wAACRT | 
PRE: 81g faclaeacaty aeAR Pra 
Seely 


9g Ayeianga: | 2 SAAT q Waa | + 23 


aR 


Riso. RMatranaiter = [ s. 9-1. 9 FT 38 
- fedtaatigg Heat Rae F | 
goat sped BeqeAAT TA AI WRU 


AA: TOREMTATAT TETAS AA: | 
PREC FAT AA YOR At: FATA WRN 


AAA UM: Tat TATA | 

UST HAT ele aaa: ETAT RY Ml 
Rens arat simi oftatagqa wT | 

UMA SHHTOTIRA A Tataaratfear: BM 
qRataad det Aes: adt waa | 
dataanecasae Torta sista: ue 
Baa gq fara: aaAViwaTaET | 
AAA ACATLAL THAATST? Ml BI 
sue aera Parca Aaa: 
ASMA OAT TATA u Re 


Nata geaTeaaer Felaare ait: 
TAT DA a SNS TAT wag | 
ARTS RT BWA UST TA TSTAT 8 
ENS BURA TATA TATE | 
SUUSEA TTT ARASH A 
qed Bact aes fATSate | 
fas fast fisrtare Aantal oa: 0 2 0 
FRAT BUS TATE: | 
adieaaena aay aires wa uy 





SN & BSF § BAM AA | © careNs_aea FAA ‘aaiyT AAT 
AUTH Te SAAT’ gaasaied ‘a’? gas za. 
1g Tee ea aA | 





idee] aatananftat tok 


2 2 a 
aahiaian aery TURES TTT | 
ENS SHSM TeacaagT AAT WY tl 
taaigaraed aes feat | 
eaAASMT Hear aang MAHA 11 & Ui 
Sea trig: cares ase: wa | 
UARaET AST aAeTAANga? Uv 1 
THAGEA: BUS “aa: aaifaa: | 
waa lifee: Neat a aaqoze: 1c 11 
WMA HSH aR sredas: | 
waters: eased SA eTa 1 I 
ASSAM Wa aera TF | 
Saat, TANT wade) aT uo 


rgeel Maio aim: Sagat warn Ve 





U Ae WaATETIRT Fdiageaitar uy 
areelennad we: Gey a saqqH | 
et SAT BiG CMTS BATT 2 1 
sereni aged war aE Tea | 
BAN a o = 
ante at aang awioaans 112 1 
WINS a4 aargananly | 
SRN Calta ae SraTAaas ar Ru 
START GR: aed Aaa | 
CARS ERIE fe: Seas als vy 1 
=~ ~ oN aia he ee 
2% ahs. 9g, Presi,  & Tee. 4. BIA. « &. eat, 
1% OPRaR. 2 og. saa 3g, RPA. ¥ s, alg, 4S. fa Sate. Gea 
cm > ~ Ca "3 
“sea ar atongi at shat ar UA RT Gel get aaa: yg ant Z- 


TU ARS ISA UG St: ETAalsa | aTesigit aa 9 ataxia, 
AAT VRAAAA SIT RaBEAAalzT | aly» watieaiead 


TT} Stqaater [at 1. Fe 

ert a tat ust, daFarqaTaA: | 
aed! Taftateg Gent Saat a 41 
quiet air g eared Biaeqay wag | 
C4 arigarararara qeaniaGaar 1 & 1 
STaBRIATSIey Fraatar Aaa: | 
ae OTT: AT are aahRaS PANTS vv 1 
aa RR wl oracatgecaa | 
aff weag deers faataiataa: 0 <i 
faoaaiterendieana qeala | 
BIS UMA BATAAN ay us 
UtEtE OTA MS UsMy ar | 
Fal UEKI SAAB FT Ala tl Vo 
Tae STAY THOTT zea | 
HHSTSA GAA SAAHAT TW Wt 
Sales T GMa Beau AStaa: | 
Bred a Asa Sacgggsoy ar | A 
SEMSIRMT UAT a aap: | 
UMS TA VF at aaah aa in ee 4 
saRene aTeRaIy at gar | 
WH Oe SiR TEaay adiaa vey 1 
OF WH cet De ee ateardarg | 

> ba - >. 
OBE JF WR a Bay FRAT Wey 
SBA GH TET wae | 

==> -. aN \ 
Wea ga at ais TAT vee 
&% Ber a Said a TT USTAaTETA: | 


€ “Ra... RT” gg, AS Agweqa | 
8% WAR. bo Seraing., 


° % gare, 


Brae.) | Natasa tar 


908 


agat ae me UST aT aes ar | 


agientiontidet Rank | 
ABE SAAT SESATRSY sz 


vw II 


sat ar eongt at Sat at ay ca ar 
wel Asi Tata: Pra Bara aaa Wo 


UTA HAs GeAIuMel ais, 


aSIead Aid Sl USA ar aa 
qeEaied ait wa sala at at 


aan 
\ 


Giant a9 si wsafy at qari zo 1 
qBIEMNa: Bat al at aaa Brat 


Wad THe Vaal Baza: hi 


RT 


Cee SS eS = 
SAAT Bt AG isa Als wssa: | 


sened fag awit sears: a 
Wore Was aay sagt cay | 


RZ U 


rh Uel Sages ay AA wa a 28 I 


BEURAT AAT Ewe AAA | 


qared aa wt fears y zy 


aiwaeo Gee woes gaat wa: 


rad aiid POAT Ret Ba ae Ry 1 


Sercaaal sara anager: 


WY TURNER: BAUAVAGATIA: NRE 


FATRSAMCAA TARSAMAT: | 


aRaaisaeainaaT AAT NW 1 








19 Be oeres TUT g. GRAB a GSR TATA | ad AEDT 


MURS RAM | AAA arar wS zanFaeu y 
agarat: | arenes Fa Raed Ra: 


Resa Peta 


\ SPAAqUaAasATAA- 


GREAT Rasa WaT Heqaeaara” FANS. y3Ta | 


408 Hataraitar [aaa 3 ei 2° 


BIOTA TY FE WTA: | 
Yflaqasit qt sack AAaPAe: W Re 

aay fat earearaarnt saat: | 

mara: Bat Ups WAS yy 
grand ad He oF aa: BAA | 
Grate AT i ws aaSATAT Zo 
TAM Ferarait aca aaa: | 

sara vacate ea a Part ae a 
Cas MAAS Peed araeaeaEANay:* | 
Rasegornuaiat + aIEHAA Nz y 
aaa dale Sere | 
UPara aed TATE AAT Ui 

fiat aff aerial aeat Sea Wee 1 
sage ase died sara: 1 

agra SRA CUTE A ASI Wey 
AAECAAIINSA ACHAT 

rend aad Sa cafeteria yay y 
mreeatiare io q ueea Raat ae 

aeme arqamia tadist ASRAT li &Q 











62% Tiare qd... five 1 93 FATAL | GRA Pg Gah ara 
Ua FAT TT TAA IBY Ysa TA: | Ay awi dear 


SAN Bon AN A 


Ta CA BA aI agate fey Way ate WUS MV a ane 
Sadist AAeaaT | BAA GTHAIAA TA ERMA n ATS eenaeqia: earrad 


asteatieay | aaa wile als taraar Padisary NUE RM TT ofet aai- 
Dactn 


caqiaan | aRRAATA Me aad Falrigat U Begenangy Vex apa 
sng: | aaa fvalal ey et sala n Sra REAT Wat 
Wie 1 arta sad AIA EATIB ER WT UA: Waa aeq vary 
wae 1 aga BAI FT aid favda: |] Beoeaieaeds qaqa? 
BAYA sarrrs AAAAUAPIT BAA UW” ANGE gad pae bs arqaat 


Rae: ais Ratag ( 


aon sare] | Statresraritar {94 


TIVE MAM Alpen ferar aes i 
ARN Tat UAB HERAT | Bw I 


yuna g arava: Radi az | 
aR aT AT AAAIgEMA AAT Xe I 
urea eager Gait ar raga | 

Wal BHAA MAT AaT AeA BAT: WBS I 
PRATT TAS TATA | 
Sea ATA AAI TeTAAT uu Yo I 
TEAR SaeE: Quuenerat ais 

aearat sass Yada: i Ye \ 
ufedarat gear eagarsar aaa za | 
qraltraaial aera itaaieaa: | 

fan ero pHigitagegaceisEr YR 
a usaingr Fa BARAT Ter: | 

weg RA: KE DTAIASIENT Ye 
TEMS WI gaasMsaiaa | 
SRFHTAAIT | MEA mAs NYY 
BAUR BaReR Zor enaaaarar | 

ais sy \ ~ EO. 

aiat azenera was arvafaeeta: vy 1 
Ue: Sata SAM TasieadeaT | 

a a WARY deat wt wae 1 Yeu 





94. %. RelAAR I 9§ gage geae “ BanGarq PAPA adeq 
yun | eiftahi@arsplhea fou: TATA SRA seq aa: 
We | Series Ua Ra: wat 1 AoRigaslteten wears | 
TMleTE AA faa Ts 1 Rates agey we Raa: n galas 
Bat ye sat at ZA“ ae prea| au aaea aia 1 apt 
FR BTA RATT TET aaa) Raya A 


a1 a5 te 3% BAA Reales 
é 3 kf i. =~ = ~ 
Tad 1 ye | aM; Ta 1 ge @. Tae sand 4 ney 


9g Safasarkter [a.0 7. 3 #1 vY 


FEMA WA FAA VerEaAewa: | 

aeay Ua TAA: Caaeay EE AAT ai Yo 
Bao yar at SATS IANT: | 

qaieaad WARS eee VAT at un Ye 

AEA TT: AT aris Sea eMATTS | 

aa a8ied at wracaraiqescaa | 

af wsaa_geed a faqdamiatesra: ti Ys i 
Praia farats ot arafgareer | 

Surg awal Us gar at aAeaATT aT Nl Yo 


p VAY GaAATIRT BASRA: 
ABET TH TT Ve: CATAAT 
ARAN aes g Vases Haq eV 
wages SF careetaaial az aria | 
aatana ediaerad HeqaeaT UR AI 
wana Raiaed wel qe: ws Raa | 
aerdeparat ar serasraat wag 2 
wareafaary Sat agi earaeHalhwars | 
aa ATTA fee HeATTETA NYU 
ata Aiieaeiterg czateas 1 





Re FE WZ eae “Ua A ALOAPa | Zale at 
RT SE A AVEAa NASH TG Raqang SraAtaig 1 ea PW aa 
Byes S4Rz TE: AMAT |Meat al RET eq PAA: | alta a usit- 
Fate Ga waa BT WA va ane Tea: anigal 
oF Ugdaiiied n AQUA! gat Ags We yaq 1 Alaga aa ae 
araTaaed aq 1 aaa a ealat ag. ust sai 0 satis zeae 
29 BN aaa. 
. & wa wes WA gag saipageaa zara « BAAN 
1 el Fe: 8S Rad t waedeed at éwawie at waq 
Sara, Sal Aa MAGES | as areal fas SaReTETT A 


qf SPreArargeraiaage ia: Saf) aiid eed: 2 : 
Pree a1, ae Za 12 FWA 


a 


HA 9 F<] RAraanitent 209 


ary Batareaaes seagate: 
cerena: eater: Taig sacaster 
ae ara watardaraiy Afat ue 
aH TIya WE IIE IIB | 

Her fared Froite qeareit <1 
sarhadgeIe: aEyAA | 
ween warglt fafsaa uv % 

wa: Sa gat UEdt asa: HAT | 
fade zie feeat vetare asa gat: uy I 
Soa utara saa | 

MAT Teo als gee: esata: Ww 4 A 
wards aerey aera af a2 

aa PAA F aaralt gaanBsra un & | 
WE BAS aT HAS at ae faa 

ante frases Aor Fat GATT ot 
Sat AAA TA aT THAT | 
PAMed WY MwA + faq cu 


PRES gee“ atireuaeiy airgiGndea: | qawdd sai. 
mea FI AR RE Rar geese: | ve Rata 
HreaeTe yy: wong aeAsqna Acad AAT | aga ding 
avo enya na Ret see sat Aaaatar AISATALY 
IgA Fa ae wmagdrasgaT weBargdaen- 
greamngeael aq | gaa QRAIG aa gay v aifiargduenat- 
TARA AAT | AGIA HAT aa adaazay y qv ae Fruged 
a ar 4 REAR | aH a eaeagdigat TATA Wo Teas AAT 
ae seni: | Sqanigiaraitraged sacl 1 CECE AGING Teg 

et aeamearauged arava: | aBATRSA a oa: A Hage 
BT ARNG! BATT eaIgeA | RATTAN” gealdgs ait. 3 q Bayne 
WA. 2 za, . 

a 





tod Satay [a 20.9 Fr & 


SeATHO: HAUT BUT AAI | 
aad Rt Vala Baa HEIAA |S 11 
qeaneraan: esaarg4 gral: | 
QqAIAeY Ase wana BAAag | 
fast neqaged qHaraecad gia: il Ye 1 
uaa Bay Wararaaag I 
fralnftatat ¢ aeaioaa faTezia 8% 
aSTeAa Haat AICHIASAPAR: | 
WAT HET UPMSaeaATaeTa: YR UI 
wey TTTMaS Tee HEAAs: | 
WS ARO AT Tei AE goad U3 1 
ALMA Fld: WATATEACT AT I 
ag faeioney yadiaicafand wag uty l 
a8 qaqa aes fasion aiaarieara | 
wage: waaeasin gid aaq Ww 
BqaCAY BARAT HICH Uazaearyg | 
afer: YRasigia wreafsaq 1 Yi 
mR aeeagegi efi Bl UTA | 

a Ua areal Uieaadifa tao 1 
ARMA AeA BIE: CAA | Ww II 
at acaaarqaacaargadl wad | 
at uf: a g faa are: Gata: Le 1 

gfe fRatarenaea seATeETTeT: I 





¥ guys J gee | BHA ARNG gaARY xfatag ’ gh dea \ 
4 Re BAe FAS Ysufled gee a ga: ga 1 eVyAt x 
Sheael adler: EYE) FA os eeMA | oT AT TAB 
gama | 8 &, Beas AA a. aay HIE: BAA | 


Ce MMS COCCI cc al 98 


nore fgararearaey agefarqenrftar: 1 
Seqisaaant: eaewsqssar: faz 
Hy POSHTS_ BA SATAAMT AA: Ya 
aU ATCA Na HAT AA | 
aaa AY BAG get syeHaAifaeT tl RU 
wagereat wis: weEU a ea: | 
a wa wines aaa set ga: 3 
wararatar: we: Tay aa zeae | 
aRMraaae AT TAT Aa Tea WY 
aes BaaRaceaaaAL: | 
PROTA sz TEiNIESTAT Al 
We Ai | qoied Fent|r AAS UY | 
aea: Teast: Segieal ¢ agi aaa | 
WRIT Fat et Bz sdoay aq i & i 
PHYA TRUST | 
ud Meat HS a aaafaat WAG vA 
SME RETART TAAIAI Tat AAT | 
SHARE TEA PLP] STTAAT: WS 
aQwlal a aged wea Cae: BUTT | 
TENET GEAUKAET ZT WAT NS 1 
ERBMAAAMS! TeHHAaTAT EAA: | 
2a pao fara: STATS: I 
afar aa Ta BIRTHS Yo ii 
HFRATSGeTA: NEA: apaqat ae? | 
Rel west Aaneadat aq wey 
1. eeizaciangaiten RE aiseraeai sel 3a Bisa aa 
wa R, Fas Gg. geAF ‘ASIN BE waeradut aaq aeandaainat 
aw 9 Fanta! TA STF EMA 3, ga Bats, GaAs Mie: se: 
ERATURE, | RET AAR sae: a gaa’ sake zea | 





c 


t¢o SASTATA (% 2M ¥ HE 8 


GMA AAA TNA Talfreaieer: | 
aM Tae TeAHEAAT Aq i LRU 
Tea Gea Farafteneciara: | 

saad g fagat faiawara ge: 1 3% 
weaeaer Tea Pradseargy we: | 
PRENST AAT HAMISA TAT: LY UI 
MBE AAT Tat TAT | 
SMKAIeIIea TT Ll BH FAT We WA 
TEENS Ha BEST fastAa: | 
Tagaae aa a Bee ART We A 
WeGe J AATMAA Wa qyHAA | 

a SFT ae waren qa | 
wNSrEae eta ew Vou 
aang saragenya: qalagaa | 

aaNe = zag asad AIA u re 1 
Ua: ET: MAT Us asa: PAT 

fate gas fecar aeiane ated wats 1 Vs 
qeagt ay: ae AT rears qa: | 
ATRIA UgSsT F FBT Ro 
Sia 989 a: Ba: Bast Asis ar | 
CUTTS AHIR AAT RL 
aa wey &: sift ale aa a cEaTa | 
ease tales zat aH 1 22 1 





¥ gags “PMs: ERE eI... Bae | wa RR” gate = 
RIF BYTOM 4 TAT | TAS “ seAARG TUT FAT WRAIZaAT | 
PAUBRAVIN SHITAATTAS Ui THATETECIRAE meg 1 Bafag 
wes ae aay ard gu” gate saa e.g. MAY. ¥ Fa TAT 
% gee “sisaitts 8 aera ade: aamgaaie TA a 
faaiiaa:” gales zeaa 


AAU, YH. 349] MA asia gee 
afer: PHU Aeear ga | 
qerada Tar et We sdorat aaa i Re 11 
sMag at UIeayReATA: | 
TARAAAS WANA ty VY Al 
Varriyat Gat sist weit dye | 
sisayat aint gi wea aaeA <4 A 
Asukryat Gat wéianaisita a 
FaUfayat aot aka qaraaq i 
SAHA Toga TPA Re I 
Aviat seat ier fRetar afeezaa | 
aersetaiarat ear aids AAT WX 
afeatg sar Far wate area: 
ai Sedo Far yeaaaat aaq 2 | 
a aa etaar wit Zeamiagiaa: | 
efile nes qagaat: wR 
SHAT gaara As aa qeqA: | 
suraraad Tall eraarat earfey So I 
a agqaaat id aar eargtsaag: | 
vataaat get aaa fea: aa am Be 


via aisiteetiagatectaremeragaareEnCer: TATA: | sepa ATE 





€ Far 4 | geae “ SS aH aa wag TA araad AAT aaa 
eral Far A saepAa Aan” gi oa EAA ¢ ara AaeaAGAl 
sararaneaidene | ard aieaeg: sa edemiea n sa 
a UaesagwEe: | aIEdaageaalaagng on BA Tt ahas 
oT sgeprr Stead: | ogress aan waaay aa) agisa: 
aio wmaedeae y 1 wgssie mar Sq fre Read" gate 
SAA i Vo FZ. Female a9 | UBQAS, 


N fadte Westen 0 
AY HAdaaieantagq—Arasaraay, 
NAM WAIT UN 
ai waders | 3% any aeaara | 
HY TAO aay TS saeiTaraVNy | 
AGS Talat Heat wera li <u 
f& wart ygalat car ar aie ar ar | 
araaeand a4 ard vale Toa: |X Ml 
TRA START BIRATEA AETHA: | 
tara Ynaread gedaragaay | = 
‘ gaMaane war ararraiad | 
SARs Fa saad sersa | Y 
ziat g wafeaR ET Tay | 
RAMG SITs ACT TSA HATE 
aalaségaiaia satel at se1eaa | 
WReearatarat weal tz Saag NG 
sa: of: qHNETTaT AATF ATER S: | 
G29 ARS AA: AST: TAG Fa Ww tt 
wag ad susteay Soarsaaat | 
AHS ASAI ASSIA HfalwaT i <0 
oi 8 madi sat Viens aaa 
qoady Rema ass wag HAS 
aaaed Tegeat TROT HANGS: | 
diva: off: areal WRT THRAT fon 
ua agal sareaar aa gt a aa aa 
Heras g agar Wag st Has Wee 
ait SEF J Waat sgysey aera | 
wa fates at Farge: a eR Ue 
& m1 3 
4 AANA, 2 A aed. 3 Bam fgiad. + A eer aa: FS, 
4B gered. «ASST g. © Baggeg. < A ReaaeaTay 











Basar I seasaaay ret 
War Rates: 

dg Vana gaia eqeratitr fercas: | 
ag U2 watemacadaaa eae ut 
sat aleed Ala-A MAA aa Hla: | 
areas feared & araiaeaan Haag Wz 1 
a3 dant gaia Rareraier fer: | 
aa ae waiepreadada Baa 2 1 
ata 7 want sales J | 
arearey gee aT agaea AeA Ag | Yl 
WaAT Aaa FIST SAT | 
aaniPaaTeTagreaS TITIAN NM 
RT FEIT Us TeTarsaeT | 
qeaiiir gaara seed a ST a 
Parag ¢ wataRrrbas Eas | 
was a fesidiat reais’ yaad io 
Faas yarn att Fea: | 
maga aniat ait wes cw 
amtimerrerara aderaiy: era: | 
ay daqaararareara TUR SATA WX A 

San a. ios 
Ulea artar sant eager sATETAT | 
AIM: ora HearaM HTT Ro 1 

LS . eS 
AT J IS US BINT aaa 

re he ne * a 
am aed ard eer Awa AT NT WRI 
° 











1B Rarergegie C amggtegdic 2 B ani aaa, 
C met wa. 3 Bien v B arma 4 B ateridaraa: 
« Baath: : 


gee 





areasaaaay {a 3 Fa Y 


We qalaeara: vu 
fasta soraea fasratt ata dara: | 
agers Halla anfeavaccasarts A 2% 
aad TAA TET g Aza | 
ed: treed te aterarador: wi < 
areata yeas arent saga | 
MIA aagrsiaa’ garaaicqara ali 4 1 
wey alear adit area fear: | 
aa died wafer acadada era tl Y I 
wareaa aint eearat a fasta: | 
aaa asia a waoTHAN Ai 
Wr RAHA sao Saati | 
wit aal seat aa MesTa AST WAS 
—- 


Nay agaleaa: u 
aeafane wat a qeareat deresfizrai | 
qaRarnle a fear gaat yfqoara surg i 2 i 
Hotareat a4 cat await: oar | 
ate amedival adagraat fear 2 1 
MATa Swe Fata 1 
ait aeat faaTT ATE TAAPAG 2 i 
THIATA: BUTT: amare | 
wane aa seat acwasania at TU | 
ad 4 aed da stad aaa a 
mrfsadinst dq Alas gram 4 1 
ugh ages AT gel sheat waT | 
WePeT G seal ageaa AFIT tl & 











9 CO aria soebaicrena a, 
1B aur. 2 Baguaj. 3 4 WNBA TENA | 





ae | streavataay acts 


ard J meet am wal Hoorsadatie | 

aaa exot Va ada a gerad 

yearn aterat drort area | 

fatearat ¢ Fe a adaceraeaa tc 1 

vated AS TaAreagai qeaTaET | 

HUT AACTs ATH HPooqarzatl fear i % |i 

aeerarat aaat fea aly pal | 

agua a pala wader waa 

agers aT Salle qalostara HrcA Wi Yo | 

POAT Avi |LOTYRaa | 

ae aed ar ag aaearife freer 2h a 

at waar waeaEcoia a | 

aa all capa ear Heater AU Vn wy 

° 

AY WTAEANT 
Baraat ar slkeq ei 44 | 
Srazaraa Gard Teed aaeE vu 
aaa gaearioT owas a eweAT | 
mes | aa a ake warsaraeA ie i 
aed TAA J AAA aTAT | 
astra aa fare waeaE eu 
FqOTAT ANATAARAT faaa | 
aaa Baa MS fers ae a ny A 
Rage ¢ aed ae eararyenan | 
© eae sraifer Stead aT ea uy 

UAAIREAREY SRAMAS Ba 1 
Rate Sot Fe ed UssaAaTE We I 

¥. Credit, 4. C aaa. §. C safe, 


av 











aren sai teres [at 4 ai. 9 
deers fafaa earareomna = | 
WIT TUBw Yorat J fs fear uw i 
asa go Pala see verre | 
qaal digot aa weiss pala Nc I 
vende aedat geri tigols a | 
faatior gy Haier wtondifay Hea |S 1 
ams atisrai ¢ adqag siaa | 
fear wea aa Har aa a Rea Yo u 
fafear eur ed a Bala eeaa | 
Ht Fi ed HAzeTHsIZA 2 I 
ae feats aad fear a ears | 
aq demas aaa ae Gig te 
Snead aaa sal Bras 
AEA TOTS HA GSS Ya A VS Ui 
anigaisen va ada aqaer | 
wey are) Aarieang eyes aa: ear u(y a 
AEA TeCAT A Mi} a sasqz | 
aA Faq ATT: BlTMET sar ey A 
qaey saat favyaieaea asrgta: | 
PLGA HAHA TABS! | VR Al 
mapsagaacan AfonTatT aTfeTst 
faded Sad aeadaan: oaeiflar 1 wo 1 
bface fear acyt feagare aseyotigen 
ag fates aT a a Bt aE HAMA aT 


Oe 








; 
a. A asain Pfam. 2. A sed. 3, CO wag qaseleaa. 
v A amd. 4. A fant §. A nega, Csr, ce 


HQ oa. 13] arensaitary 2oo 


‘HT TSA: 
aval faasiadiz: seed serat fear 
facrar doses fafent ARR 1 eu 
ada AAANTa Teal AOA | 
qaat fasar set at aaltarsaet lz 
GST AASIANA AAA) AANA | 
weet Guerra aaa a Pads ue 
qaeat okra Usa waar Fer | 
wegen g ata wear aseAe Ul Yl 
gaat asa Ge gala aaleat | 
AGa weed slqarasr Saal 4 
Saag 4 star earedtotareat aa far 
qistareat saraea a fatgeaea aaa tl & i 
Geel aa weart gafesarfir asa | 
at aqadoal aside qadaty io u 
Arar WAI Sar feet TO vatea TTT | 
faa: oy gan caaersg ue 
aati ofa faereastesrzanare | 
fqdiar aaat war graze Arrgag Us i 
Tata FEAT VA AAT = xarq aaleait | 
aget aaat er ata a aadat uo uN 
UaA Saat OT ae aaa a 
feat 4g ay fgrereaa ae 8e 1 
aeai wit: Mayet a Hai wa sat aet a era | 
Fort Re Taw wa wa aE: aaHOMATAT eR II 
wa ged foqmgitartien aararen a fetergaeat a 
SAS aa acta: Tae aster Tae he 





. Aaa 2A cag. 3. C ews 





£4 aTeAsaaTy [ a. » 9a 9 


AY AANA: 
ararai weasarfy weons acer: | 
armed da Sata vafraaanat a 
yaa aarater ans aaraana = | 
vaftaaraaealinn eRaaraa FR Ul 
aaa asaetat Tots: faweerieor: | 
waa Ey: Taek | FIAT u & I 
erat astitaed feat fafafeaaor | 
FANT SserAet eqraenGt ast sz uy 
quia agaeaia sisty sista Brae | 
aaa a teal yaaa BRAT UY Ul 
vata EReaed Wao asad | 
THAI SAT Wes Taq ul & 1 
MATS Aeaaa: TA A yaaa saifate dag = | 
aaaaig fanféas araraard 4 aaa asa iv ii 
Taga 4: iw: eaed Sroarsata | 
welseal suetiarat fasta: qardara: Ww <i 
gal Tat Haighgrté geene: | 
Beast Heras Salsa a dat i Su 
| BT aR GS vars ata: | 
arqaaas Fal wa AAR A Yo ii 
ARAN F aaa fears: earzetaraat | 
BU SA TAHEd SAAS | 
aah: enaesd RiSediftaaon i we uv 
fefaaaaecot yedata eae | 
FATT area: sa TARAT 1 BR Al 


2 A AaTMA. 2 CMAs. 9 C afta. 











ce aasaiaga SB 


AMAT SOIT Heda eae: | 
aaraey fe aeara grat se AAA | Ye i 
gxerd HEAT AHIR APAATT | 
que fe aealeggeda Sead | 
edt Ha BH fread ars dara Vy 
acura gedea frat a caftar afe | 
feared gai eareaaataga 1 4 II 
agra Yedes feeiar SOTA =F | 
agaer araea aHaT SATA: | AS Ul 
Tet: vaaes aa: ofeaeaaT | 
aeaaraqeeta tetas + Fata: Ww |i 
4 aa aeAd ART FArSASATT: | 
ae wafera arth ePaceararsaRsa cu 
aq Hoos aia: waeaad aa Fart Faq 1 
fAdasa AHS Feat wail Hraiter Aa eat ue su 
fafategon ster aa a vary 
AAS: Vike: SO Teaieaay Ro i: 
arian aireaerss: Batra: 
SR TAIT: THATS RAISTASA t RV 
adigd TAA aBASNA Ter Waster STATERATA | 
waaaas Bafearit eatoaer afea a Faarhes RU 
6 5 
AY AACA: 
oufgea: aiat Area at gage | 
anda: aera ct ae Barat: eu 
aus aafraot aaa ert waaay 
darian’ yt asd acadareeaiea wareaq 3 
+. A @tvqai arta. Ste ene tay 
9A. B. ageai, 2 0 aarti, 3 A aaatiy, 











Ro 


’ arensai faa [ a. < val. 9 


oad ara ages ahivrentoarqeranes | 

aie atsnft ata aan: de galfead fafa: v2 0 
Harare A W ar Farge a ada usa | 
sq Maed a wa: qaeatia war TaTEAA YN 
TATA WERT Hearsay Roa eee | 

fray AS ofadadta fast oeiafea A gee YW 
PaaS GEENA A aM AAiaya | 
Tae arises Ht galzamifst a i & i 
WAITS TG waa AS Waist A | 

eased Pasay a dei ar gated waeaT |i wl 
es eH KAP Got TeWaal asaead = | 

may aa ane ye ar aaeat aad aETT lich tcl 


oO 








AY ATA V 
MAGA NOT as ged ged we | 
HewIeY ae z sagas wits 2 i 
TIAA AAA BAYA | 
AHaATET HT rea: BBs 2 1 
aarat Beanioraa serait | 
aemiaaaly daaedie aa wey 
FHA: eae: ATT ETAT | 
Fri firaba qeit da va Tuya 


mit oraTaraIeH a aTAT EA | 


wera Sa natarareyeag uy 1 
aiaterea fagma soeatt aor | 
adianetast g gras g ia ne q 
aed aged anasi aaag aay 
meat Gay aaNTs WENA Vion 





* C ata. 4 A BG, 
10 apaa—fRreser. 2 ¢ aaa, 





BR. Yo 2h. ¢ ] sMeAsaTTAI 492 
ane ¢ aga 18 Gaga a aa | 
dad caffe g Tres aad aT Nc I 
AS aazeT faarrenfgarrata TEA | 
wafer ot BS aamerael a aa Ht % I 
qaaaae al wed Tala | asia | 
qad aad aa ao: Hraffor grea u Yo I 
TIT HHHBAIATRATKAAT TTA: | 
aaa Ta ToTRaTT PAHS JOU AL UG 
ies 
AY FAANCATT: 
aa HeHAAA Tay meaty | 
Wale MOTs BEA A asia i ¢ Il 
qs wai a ard weed = | 
TMAASS SH Alraeseasans Fy 
ant faa dase arardat 4 ais | 
aaageray Ay sty ashAT | 3 
fared ag ar asia BasiFar | 
MOT BAcAAT PAH IHL TT Wy i 
sedate Bai A aTET | 
faqeat nat galaetetaata a 4 1 
geared saete aemeaara aaa | 
meas ANT F agalater astaq ve 1 
mR FT HAST: TAH: Har | 
git a a maeed ay IATA Ww | 
HMMM SAT areca aot | 
aataterea Fret a aaaieRTyYa tle 
> AB amit. ait: 
1 AB wats: C ag a. 3c PHN a 








gat Srensan faa [ a. v0 sai. § 


Ser got eae Aq saz saa | 

wea a Aenea a a eae si 

aS fadtergeqretzaroraanta | 

BaeAAy Fo aaeaeAAaTeHET | Yo 11 

wR AAS G ad ahrareneT | 

mparaaeetiea fata a ae AZ Won 

ane 
BY THREAT: 

relearafataata: erdajser dere | 

waa haeaa acragareqaea: ve i 

ara marca caret seat yar | 

aa frente eat earhagee ga > 

aoeRe sa errdigeda Pacey 

ara a waderratata aaa i 2 i 

TR J ea eaeMatsarayag | 

sera ed Paraerattadt aay 

faaniea Wt JF watea aT YET | 

aa RAAT g AAT Med a goat ny 1 

qaisay aaa aaeafeaeq|ar maT | 

qa T SAA YETTA Ne 11 

wird Ie Aas anie, aegalag | 

SGI aoa J TATA Ww WRN 


oO 














AA FAMEINA 
Ae TAME KAT YooTATTAT | 
araori Maas F PVE |e 
VATA arat zara Pay | 
aoe AROTAT OOP e: eA: 1 2 1 





© AB Rarerigiet 
r ABwRMay 2 AB aS. 
4 C gamit 


FH. 33 9B. ¥ ] sNeASaT AT «2 
wat eaiotg aig faa maraforT | 
eat BOTA Sag He wMHATT | 
sea HAS AG Gi areret aaa | 
ant wradt parneaiata a aaa iy i 
Raed F ANiot TeaTETasiAT | 
werd 4 a Baia aaleBewats para 4 
BTR (Tat Gt Taw sat qET | 
7 MAST T URACATIAAT Nw 1 
wets faa Saat wars | 
TEM Tad TMRAARTASTA Iw I 
aT gar ANT Esta TIaTA: 
wal ai aS Targad waa uc u 
at fasiaceaes tra aRiaware | 
Fat asi aS aguawa wad] y < 
fsifaar wifes aezant ach seer SaeAT = | 
ated Asazett J alrat micq Pa FSH 112 of 
98 Gad meas oe: wereas | 
seat aaroutufattatted Se tt Ra og gQ 4 
is] 
Nt Sareaieara: 
¥e: Bae: Sot waa: steer eat: | 
SHR : ATS HANG: faRaMAES 1 an 
TMT Pirateraat | at | 
TATA TE HB AEE ge WaT: WR 
SG FAT Sac Perit gay Tg 
THTGHG TATE HATA fee sy 
TGS TF at waaay ree: | 
BH gaedfaat at ality psy ATT: yy y 
2 C away. 3 C de veg, i a ne 
24 











838 


areasaiary [ 3. 93 9a 4 


ageal Sad Gat stemrelovaisia: | 
Rararaast ate: Hana v4 
gaat gfe ant wear garg qaary | 
SARA SAMBA PAC Ta: ll & Ul 
aaa GAM ant zarai wat: Tat | 
THlaRaaaal at gizeat FeahaA: Ww Il 
aalaeat gat aor qordacaritot | 

Ha TASET Gl SaaS wTMANT | < il 
qaepA Hager oifearcar aaa: | 
wad FT agdsat flea sina: af: 0 <1 


Brad Wrzeai @ seal tei u “ i 
Rareadces: aaaral faeza: | 

STAT: aauarai sexat a: UST ul a 
° 


Ua VasaTeas 


UST Fs UsBasTaT fa: 
aa 








Peal T ASS AA Wa wala waa: 1 

aca dates azaeeestorg ue i 

war ad seararugdat asia | 

Saal eee aeat srg at Aas v RU 
SHaq aay VASA Gas | 

fat Gaeantaet saa BAHT ar 3 
wag Fata: wale Ga: ga: 

akoat garg TARTATASTSS tl Bat 
afereataTeTS q Saas EUs a: 

aired wad sr a5 aatgsray Quy 





9 C Sarma: 
10 gi 2A Baie) 


ueeu 





a, AY 9, 92] AASATATA 4g 


aaieragena RUT wala | 
e on A . Py 
fread airing eatepattor Frew: & 
ad agaaay fy ea ARR | 
qAASHTAA GEARSAGA tio i 
afeater qarearagqarasantara: 
ayaa wear wa waaleq J i < 1 
sralaiai aeadates aaiGorrg | 
WAAR ATT: TaTAeaS Sea US Ul 
TANG gerata Saar: fat Ear: | 
Usa: wegsaed Adeecrmanaar uv YoU 
aeasaifente: wayt eager | 
~ 2 
ANAT: TSAR SISATET FSH: YP u 
4 84 Usd fast fafeas antiga: | 
Bate wa HF aarafataaeraig | sraratary- 
aMATgg WLR WWW 
DN Nm . Aare 
Tass TIS eR speAaT SATE 





3. C ara saifag1 x. 0 say ; 
‘ Cg 14. C maida. ¢. ‘aeiizs 
SMe 8 — Fea I A Brad Cre ak : 
Las RAB “ ga cA SAAT PAT awvae at atts 
I Tara aaa qarear haa: 
“Ua aigha . 
ay. ae ee X.: milage 
mae Wess we farsa SAR Sgaaas gen 4 Wagar 
Raa FUT Mos ae ETE y va i 


bo 


ow 


& 


UPADES A SUTRAS, 
OF 
JAIMINI 
First Adhyaya First Pada. 


We shall now explain the ancient (traditional) instruc- 
tions (in Astrology). 


The (twelve) Divisions (of the Zodiac) aspect the 
Divisions in their front; so also they aspect the 
Divisions at the two sides. 


The planets occupying the Divisions aspect similarly. 


The planets occupying the fourth, second and eleventh 
houses from the aspecting planet form a combination 
with the aspecting planet. 


The planets in the third house from the aspecting 
planet form a combination ‘with the aspecting planet 
provided they are malefic planets and are in a greated 
number than the benefic planets in that house. 


The planets, occupying the tenth twelfth and third 
houses from the aspecting planet, present an opposition 
(to the formation of the combination of planets occupy- 


ing respectively the fourth, second and eleventh: 
houses ). 


Planets lesser in number, or weakened, do not present 
an opposition. 


36 487 


198 Upadesa Siitra [ 1,1. 8 


8 Similar combination takes place in the case of houses 
in trine (viz. the fifth and ninth from the house 
concerned ). . 


9 Reverse is the case with Netu (regarding the counting 
of houses which is done backwards). 


10 That planet (out-of the seven or eight planets) who is 
more ahead than others (in degrees and minutes in the 
several divisions counted as first, second ete, from the 
point of the Vernal Equinox), is called the Chief 
Significator. 


Ll: He rules over the bondage and Jiberation (misery and 
happiness} of man. 


12 The planet next in order to him is called the Minister 
Significator (Amatyakdraka }. 


13. The planet next to him is called the Significator of the 
Brother (Bhratrkaraka). 


14 The planet next to the Significator of the Brother is 
called the Significator of the Mother ( Matrkaraka’). 


15 The planet next to the Significator of the Mother is 
called the Significator of the Father ( Pitrkaraka ). 


16. The planet next to the Significator of the Father is 
~~ called the Significator of the son (Putrakaraka). 


17 The planet next to the Significator of the son is called 
the Significator of kinsfolk (Jiiatikaraka). 

18 The-planet next to the Significator of kinsfolk is called 
the Significator of the Wife (Darakaraka), 





bi 


19. 


28 | English Translation 199 


Some scholars maintain the tradition of -taking the 
Significator of the mother as the Significator of the son 
also, (taking the number of significatory planets as 
seven and not eight, of course omitting Rahu). 


The consideration of the sister, brother-in-law, younger 
brother and mother can be made from the planet Mars. 


; : er 
Other relatives such as maternal uncle, or mothers 
relatives, in short, are to be considered, from the next 


'. i. e. Mercury. 


bo 
wo 


27. 


28 


Grandfather, husband and son should be considered 
from Jupiter. 


_. Wife, parents, parents-in-law, and mothers parents 


should be considered from the next i.e. Venus, oF 
rather—from the next four. respectively 3. e. from 
Venus, Saturn, the Sun and the Moon. 


Saturn is the most feeble among planets. 


‘Counting ahead should be followed in the case of odd 


divisions. 


- Counting backwards should be followed in the case of 


even divisions. 


Not so, however, in some cases (ive. in the case of 
- divisions 2, 5, 8 and 11). : 


% 


Generally, for each division, the number of years for 
the life-period of the division or Data is calculated 
from the pafticular division to the division occupied by 
the lord of that division ( in the right or reverse order 
according as the division falls in odd or even Ra¢ipadas’ 


200 
29 


wo 
—) 


34 


135 


Opadesa Stitra [1.i. 29 


The Pada Lagna or Aridha Lagna is the division 
which is obtained by calculating as many divisions 
ahead of the division occupied by the lord of the 
Ascendant, as there are divisions from the Ascendant 
to the lord (of the Ascendant ). 


If the lord of the Ascendant be in the fourth from the 
Ascendant, then the fourth house (and not the seventh 
house ) is the Pada Lagna or Arudha Lagna. 


Similarly, if the lord of the Ascendant be in the seventh 
house from the Ascendant, then the tenth is the Pada 
Tagna or Aridha Lagna (and not the Ascendant 
itself ). 


The Bhavas (houses ) and the Divisions are to be under- 
stood everywhere in this system of Jaimini from letters 
of the alphabet of the words used for them. 


3 The planets are not to be understood in the way given 


above. 


The twelve divisions are to be taken one after another 
for considering the periods ( Dasis } so that the 
maximum number of years for the divisions reaches the 
number 144. In short, there should be considered 
the twelve houses one after another. 


‘Hora, Dreskana “and ‘other kinds of subdivisions 


are to be taken as they are current among the ‘people. 


First Adhyaya Second Pada 


"1 Now follows the consideration of the division ( of the 


zodiac ) occupied by the Chief Siguificatory planet 


Lii13] English Translation 201 


2 If the division occupied by the Chief Significatory pla- 
net be the first (from the first point of Mega Rasi ) the 
person is affected (favourably or adversely ) by rats 


and cats. ; 
Té the division be the second one, he is affected. by qua- 
drupeds. 

If the division be the third one, the person is affected 
by itches and corpulence. 


ow 


Cs 


If the division be the fourth, the person is affected by 
water and leprosy. 


or 


If it be the fifth, be is affected by beasts. 


a 


Ifitbe the sixth, then he is affected in the same 
way as mentioned for the third division, and 
addition he is affected by fire. 


~_ 


ios) 


If it be the seventh, the person has his fortune influ- 
enced by trade. 


Tf it be the eighth, the person is affected by water-rep 
tiles and does not get feeding from the mother’s milk. 


pe] 


10 If it be the ninth, the person gets a fall from a vehicle 
or from a higher position. 


11 IE it be the tenth, the person is affected by aquatic crea- 
tures, birds, planets, meteors, itches and incurable 
cancers. 


12 If it be the eleventh, the person is affected by tanks, 
wells etc, 


13 If it be the twelfth, the person will be firm in religion 
and will aim at. Emancipation. 


d02 Upadesa: Sita [ 1. i. 14 


14 It the Sun occupies the division of the chief signi 
ficatory planet, .( being himeelf the chief Significator or 
otherwise) the person is devoted to the service of the 
king. 


_ 


If the full-moou or Venus occupies the division of the 
significatory planet, the person becomes a voluptuary 
commanding all enjoyments, and lives by learning. 


16 If the planet Mars occupies the division of the signifi- 
catory planet, the person is engaged in alchemy, arch- 
ery and lives by occupations connected with fire. 


17 If the planet Mercury occupies the division of the singt- 
ficatory planet, the persons become traders or 
weavers, or sculptors or businessmen in general. 


If the planet Jupiter be in the division of the signifi- 
catory planet, the persons become engaged in religious 
rites, theology and scholars of Veda. 


19 Ifthe planet Venus be in.the division of the significa- 
tory planet, the persons become loyal Government 
servants, voluptuaries aud centenarians or skilled in 
hundred arts. 


20 If the planet Saturn be in the division of the significa- 
tory planet, the person lives by a famous profession. 


21 If the planet Rabu be there, the persons become arch- 


ers, thieves, experts in poison-cure and skilled in iron- 
machinery. — 


22 If the planet Ketu be there, bey ion - eaters in 
_yelephants apd-rebbers. 


23 If the Sun and Rahu, both, be there Gn the division 


of the. chief significatory planet), the person dies of 
snake-bite. 





Beiis-34. | ‘Knglish Translation 208 


24 But if the division be aspected by «a benefic planet, the 
above calamity is averted. ; 


25 If that division of the significatory planet with the 
Sun and Rahu in it, be connected only with benefic 
planets, the person becomes a dostor of poison cure. 


26 If that division be aspected by Mars alone, the person 
has a tendency to set fire to houses or to burn things. 


27 But if there be the aspect of Venus there, he will nog 
actually set fire. 





2s If Jupiter be aspecting that division, the fire comes 
upto the house of the person, but does not burn his 
house. 


“9 If the division, be characterized by Gulika, the person 
will deal in: poison or die of poison. 


30 If the Moon aspects the division, the person will be a 
thief or will have his wealth stolen by thieves. 


31 If there be the aspect of Mercury alone, on the 
division~ of the significitory planet, the person 
will suffer from enlarged testicles. 


32 If there be Ketu aspected by a malefic planet in that 
division occupied by the significatory planet, the per- 
son suffers from ear-slit or ear-disease. 


33 If Ketu there, in the division occupied by the signi- 
ficatory planet, be aspected by | Venus, the person 
becomes the performer of religious sacrifices. 


34 If Ketu be aspected there: by Mercury and Saturn’ bsth, 
ihe person becomes impotent, Pe ; 


204 Upadesa Stitra [I. ii. 35 


35 If that division of the significatory planet be aspected 
by Mercury and Venus, the man becomes 4 repeater 
of his own talk or a: slave-girl’s son. 


36 If Ketu be aspected there by Saturn, the persou 
becomes a recluse or a servant. 


37 If that division be aspected by Saturn alone, the 
person becomes a pseudo-recluse. 


If there be the aspect of the Sun and/or Venus on 
the division occupied by the significatory planet, the 
man becomes a state ambassador. 


3 


oo 


If the tenth house from the division occupied by the 
significatory planet be oceupied hy, or, aspected by 
Mercury, the result is the same as in the case of Saturn 
occupying the division of the significatory planet. 


3 


wo 


40 If the tenth house be aspected by a benefic planet, the 
person will have stability in his undertakings or posi 
tion, and he will be skilled in arbitration. 


41 If there is the Sun in the tenth who is aspected only 
by Jupiter, the person becomes a controller of senses. 


42 If the fourth house from the division occupied by 
the Chief Significator, be occupied by the Moon or Ven- 
us, or, if that house be aspected by the Moon or Venus, 
the person gets a palatial place for his residence. 


43 The same’is the result if in that house thereis a 


planet in exaltation. 


44 Tf Rabu or Saturn be there, the person gets a house of 
stones. 


I. ii, 56 | English Translation 


205 


45 If there be Mars or Ketu, the person gets » house of 


46 
47 


48 


+9 


Gr 
wo 


bricks. 
If Jupiter be there, the person gets a wooden house. 


If the Sun be there, the person gets a hut of grass. 


Tfin the ninth house from the division of the chief 


religion, truthful and devoted to the preceptor. 


The result is otherwise. if there be a malefic planet, or, 
if it be aspected by a malefic planet. 


If Saturn or Rahu be there, the man has hatred for 
his preceptor. 


If the Sun and J upiter be there, the person has 
distrust in his preceptor. 


2 If there be Venus and Mars in the ninth house in any 


one of the divisional charts ( Kundalis ), the man loves 
another’s wife. 


53 If the ninth be occupied by Venus and Mars not only 


54 


in one of the sub-divisional charts, but if Mars or 
Venus be presént there or aspecting it in several 


charts, the man becomes fond of another’s wife for the 
whole of his life. : 


If Ketu be there, present in the ninth or aspecting it, 
the above is averted. 


If Jupiter be there in the 


e _ ninth or aspecting it, the 
man becomes uxorious, i 


If Rahu be present there or 
money by his sensuousness. 
7 


aspecting it, the man loses 


206 Upadesa Siitra [ 1. ii. 57 
57 If Jupiter or the Moon be present in or aspecting the 
seventh from the house occupied by the significatory 


planet, the man gets a beautiful wife. 


58 If Rahu be present there or aspecting it, the man gets 
a widow as his wife. 


59 If Saturn be there or aspectirfg it, the man gets a wife 
who is older in age than he, or one whois always 
sickly, or one who ‘has been a recluse, or one who has 


been practising penance. 


60 If Mars be there or aspecting it, the man gets a wife 
with some defect in her limbs. 


61 If the Sun be there or aspecting it, the man gets a wile 
who is to he watched at home (being possessed of a 
loose character or possessed of a defect in her limbs ). 


62 If Mercury. be occupying the seventh or aspecting it, 
the man gets an accomplished wife. 


63 If the Moon be in the fourth house, any of the other 
planets. being in the seventh, the man gets his wife as 
mentioned above, but, specially he has the first asso. 

‘ciation with her in moonlight in the open. hae 


64 If a malefic bé in the third or aspecting the third from 
the division occupied by the chief Significatory planet 
. the ‘person. becomes. brave. fei" 


63 If a benefice planet be there, the person becomes 
a coward: Kes eae a 


ban i 
66 Ifa malefic planet occupies or aspects the third as also 


the sixth, the person b I a f r r 
ecomes a Tarme . 


Lik 79 ] English Translation 


70 


71 


76 


77 


78 


207 


- 67 If Jupiter occupies the ninth, there being a malefic in 


the third and the sixth or aspecting the third and the 
sixth, the person becomes definitely so. 

If a benefic planet occupies the twelfth house from the 
house occupied by the chief significatory planet, the 
person goes to superior regions (after death). 

If Ketu occupies the twelfth, the person gets Absolution. 
If letu occupies the twelfth house, the twelfth house 
being the twelfth division or the fourth division (from 
the point of the Vernal Equinox) the man definitely 
gets Salvation. 


If maletics oceupy the twelfth, the result is otherwise. 


2 If the Sun or Ketu be in the twelfth house from the 


division occupied by the chief significator, the man 
becomes devoted to Siva. 


If the Moon be there, he becomes devoted to Gauri. 


If the planet Venus be there, he becomes devoted to 
Laksmi. 

lé the planet Mars be there, he becomes devoted to 
Kartikeya. = 


If Mercury and/or Saturn be there he becomes 
devoted to Visnu. 


If Jupiter be there, the person becomes devoted to 
Siva with Parvati. 


If Rahu be there, he becomes devoted to Goddess Kali 
and also to S‘iva. 


79 If Ketu be there, he becomes devoted to Ganapati and 


Kartikeya and alsoto S’iva. 


“868 Upadesa Siitra ‘[ tri. 80 


80 If Saturn be there in that twelfth, and the twelfth is 
owned by a malefic, the person becomes devoted to 
lower deities. —Yaksa, Vetala and the like. 


81 If Venus be there in that twelfth which is owned by a 
malefic, the same is the result. 


82 The same result should be understood in the case of 
the sixth house also from that occupied by the chief 
significator, . 


aN : : 

83 If there be two malefics in each of the trines viz the 

fifth and the ninth, the person becomes proficient in 
the exercise of charms. 


84 If the two malefic planets are aspected by malefics the 
person exercises charms obstructing the tendencies of 
others 1. e, harmful to others. 


84 It they are aspected by benefic planets he obliges others 
(by his charms). 


86 Tf there be the moon aspected by Venus in the division 
of the chief significatorv planet, the man becomes profi: 
cient in alchemy. 


87 If the Moon be there aspected by Mercury, the man 
becomes a physician, 


88 If there be the moon aspected by Venus in the fourth 
house from the division of the chief significatory 
planet, the man suffers from white leprosy. 


89 If there be the aspect of Mars in addition, the man 
suffers from red leprosy, 


90 If there be the aspect of Kety (instead of that of Mars) 
. there is blue leprosy. 


{. ii. 102 ] English Translation 209 


91 If there be Mars and Rahu in the fourth or the fifth, 
the man suffers from consumption which may be 
cured. 


© 


92 If Mars and Rahu have the aspect of the Moon, the 
man definitely sutters from consumption which is in- 
~ curable. 


9 


os 


If Mars be there in the fourth or fifth, the person suff- 
ers from boils. 


9 


rg 


If there be Ketu, the person suffers from dysentery or 
dropsy: 


93 If Rabu and Gulika are there, the person suffers from 
light poisoning by rats. 


36 If Saturn is in the second or fourth from the division 
occupied by the chief significatory planet, the man 
becomes skilled in archery. 


97 If Ketu be there, he becomes skilled in preparing ma - 
chines showing time, or an astrologer. 


8 Tf Mercury be there, he becomes a great Samnyasi, or a 
bachelor. 


99 If Rabu be there, he becomes proficient in’ iron- 
machinery. 


100 Ifthe Sun is there, he becomes clever in using the 
sword. 


*101 IE there is Mars, he becomes skilled in the use of lance, 


102 If the Moon and Jupiter be present in the division 


occupied by the chief significatory planet, or in the fifth 
fro it, the person becomes an author. 


210 
103 


104 


105 


106 


107 


108 


110 


111 


112 


118 


114 


Upadesa Sttrei [ L. ii. 108 


If Veiius be there (alcug with the Moon ), he becomes 
an author of slightly less reputation. 


If Mercury be there (with the Moon) he becomes an 
author of still less reputation. 


Ii Venus be there, the person becomes a poet, an orator 
and a critic of poetry. 


If Jupiter be there, he becomes a man of vniversa] 
knowledge and an author. 


But he lacks oratory. 


He also becomes a distinguished grammarian, and a 
scholar of Veda (theology ) and Philosophy if 
Jupiter be there ( by virtue.of Jupiter’s presence ). 


Té Saturn be there, he cuts a poor figure in assemblies 


of learned men (although he be a scholar of Veda, 
and Vedanta, and a Grammarian). 


Tf Mercury be there, he becomes a scholar of 
Mimamsa. 

I€ Mars be there, he becomes a scholar of Nyaya (Logic 
and Metaphysics). 

If the Moon be there, he becomes a scholar of the 
Sarakhya Philosophy and proficient in poetics and 
singing. 

If the Sun be there, he becomes a philosopher and 
proficient in Music. 


If Ketu be there, he becomes proficient in Mathe- 
matics. 


1. ii. 121 ] Linglish Translation 211 


115 If Jupiter be there (in addition to any other planet), 


116 


117 


118 


119 


120 


121 


the man possesses the ‘knowledge of tradition ( in 
addition to his proficiency in a éastra due to the other 
planets). 


What is described above (in connection with the first 


and fifth houses from the one: occupied by the chief 
significator) becomes applicable to the second house 
also, 


Some people say that the considerations given above 
apply also to the third house (from the division of the 
chief significatory planet ). 


If Ketu be there in the second aspected by a malefic 
planet, the man has a faltering tongue, or he has his 
tongue held up when he has to reply to others. 


If there be an equal number of malefic planets in the 
second and the eighth from the division occupied by 
the chief significator, or from the Lagna (Ascendant), 
or from the Pada- A aielay then there occurs the Conjunc- 
tion (Yoga ) Kemadruma resulting in poverty. 


If the Moon aspects any of the- ‘planets making the 
Kemadruma there, the . Kemadruma is of a specially 
bad type. 


This Kemadr uma Yooa should’ be understood in the 
case of any of the other houses if there is an equal 
number of malefic planets in the second and the eighth 
from it, and the results of it should be considered when 
there begins the Dasa of that Division. 


Re pee ee 


Lo 


6 


NI 


10 


11 


Upadesa Sutra [ J. iii. 1 
Adhyaya I Pada 3. 
Now begins the consideration of the Pada Lagna. 


If the eleventh from the Pada Lagna has one or more 
planets, or if it is aspected by one or more planets, the 
person becomes wealthy. 


Tf all these planets are benefic, his acquisition is by 
good means. 


If the planets are all malefic, his acquisition is by 
ignoble means. 


Specially good or bad results occur if the planets be in 
their-exaltation or in their own houses etc. etc. 


The person becomes a spendthrift if the twelfth from 
the Pada has one or more planets, or if it is aspected 
by one or more planets. 


If the Sun, Rahu and/or Venus be in the twelfth, the 
expenses are due to the King’s demands—taxes, 
fines, etc. 


If there is the aspect of the Moon iu addition, the above 
mentioned occurs definitely. 


If there is Mercury in the twelfth, the expenses arise 
due to fines etc. levied by the caste people or due to 
quarrels. 


If there is Jupiter in the twelfth the expense arises 
from taxes levied by the King. 


If there be Mars and/or Saturn, the expenses are due 
to brothers and the like, 





L. iii 22 ] English Translation 213 


12 The causes of expenses given above become, in fact, 
the sources of income in case those planets are in the 
eleventh house from the Pada. 


13 If there is Rahu or Ketu in the seventh from the Pada, 
the person suffers from diseases of the stomach. 


\4 If there is Ketu in the second house from the Pada 
\ Lagna, there occur signs of old age prematurely. 


15 Tf there is the Moon, Venus and/or Jupiter (in the 
second house from the Pada) the person becomes rich. 


16 If there is any other planet in exaltation there, the 
same is the result. 


17 Other results should be understood on general lines as 
in the case of the varions planets stationed at different 
distances from the Chief Significator. 


1S If the Pada of the Seventh house from the Ascendant 
be in a square (1, 4, 7,10) or in a trine C1390) 
from the Ascendant, the person becomes wealthy. 


19 If it be elsewhere (i.e. in 2, 3, 6, 8, 11, 12 houses ) the 
person becomes poor. 


20 If the Pada of the seventh be in a Kendra, or Trikona 
or Upacaya (3, 6, 10, 11) from the Ascendant, the 
husband and the wife should remain friendly. 


21 If it be in the 12th, or in the 8th or in the 6th from 
the Ascendant, they should dislike each other. 


22 If in the Pada of the La 
there is an unopposed 
son becomes lucky. 

i , 


gna or in the seventh from it, 
association of planets the per- 


LX) 
fon 


a te gO 
Upadesa Siitra [ I. iti, 20 


If the association be made up of benefic planets, he 
gets ample wealth. 


If one and the same planet is aspecting the Janma 
Lagna, the Hora Layna as also the Ghatika Lagna, the 
person becomes a King (i. e. extremely lucky ). 


So also, if the first or the seventh house in the Rasi 
Chart, Navarhga Chart, and Drekkana Chart at the time 
of birth, be aspected by one and the same planet, the 
person has the good luck of obtaining Royal 
Glory. 


i If there be the deficiency of aspect in respect of one of 


the three Charts (mentioned above), the Royal Glory 
is less in. proportion. 


The same consideration should be had in respect of 
other Rasi subdivisions and Drkkana horoscopes. 


-Té Venus and the Moon are aspecting each other, or if 


both are in the third from the Ascendant, the person 


" possesses carriages. 


30. 


31 


If Mars, Venus and Ketu aspect each other, the person 
holds sacrificial sessions or holds royal canopy. 


If there are all benefic planets in the second, the fourth, 
the fifth and the eighth houses from the one occupied 
by the chief significatory planet, all together in one 
of these places or one in each place, the person gets the 
position of a King. 


‘The same is the goodluck if there are malefic planets 


in the third: and the sixth houses (from the one oceupied 
by the chief significatory planet ), 





ft 38 | English Translation 


215 


32 The same (i. e. Royal glory) is attained _ if there,are 


33 


malefic planets in the third and the sixth houses from 
that occupied by the lord of the Ascendant or the lord 


of the Seventh. 


If there isan equal number of planets of any kind— 
malefic or benefic—in the third and the sixth on the 
one hand, or in the second, fourth etc. on the other, 
either from the lord of the Ascendant or from the lord 
of the Seventh, there is a happy prosperous Jife. 


Poverty is the result in the reverse cases, namely, if 
there are malefic planets in the second, fourth, fifth 
and eighth places or benefic planets in the third and 
the sixth places from the lord of the Ascendant or 
from the lord of the seventh. 


If there is Jupiter, Venus or the Moon in the fifth 
from the Lord of the Ascendant or from the Lord of 
the seventh, the persons should become high Govern 
ment officials. 


If there is a malefic planet in the third or the sixth 
house from the Lord of the Ascendant or from the 
Lord of the seventh, the man becomes a general of the 
army. 

If the chief significatory planet and/or the Ascendant 
be aspected by a planet in the third or the sixth’ house 
(from the chief significatory planet or the Ascendant ) 


_ or. by the lord of the third or the sixth _ house or by 
the lord of the fifth house, the n men become possessed of 


38 


wisdom. 


If the chief significatory planet and/or. the Ascendant . 
be aspected by the lord of the fourth, the persons 
become happy. 





216 


Upadesa Sutra [ L iii. 39 


39 If the chief significatory planet and/or,the Ascendant 
' be aspected by the lord of the eighth, the men become 


40 


41 


43 


44 


45. 


poor. 


If the chief signiticatory planet and/or the Ascendant 
be aspected by the lord of the twelfth, the persons 
become spendthrift or have expensive habits. 


If the Ascendant or the chief significatory planet be 
aspected by the lord of the Ascendant or by the lord of 
the house occupied by the chief significatory planet, 
the persons become powerful. 


If the Ascendant or the division occupied by the chief 
significatory planet has the same number of planets on 
either side of iti e. in the second and the twelfth, 
or in the fifth and the ninth, or in the third and the 
eleventh or in the fourth and the tenth or in the sixth 
and twelfth, the man gets misery or imprisonment. 


Similarly in the case of the twelve zodiacal divisions 
and their lords: if the surrounding planets be benefic. 
the misery or boudaye is nominal; but if they he 
malefic, the person is enchained and whipped even. 


It there is Rahu in the Pada of the fifth place from the 
Ascendant, and if he is aspected by the Sun, the man 
loses his eyesight. 


If there are the Moon and Venus in the fourth house 
from the chief significatory planet, the person gets 
processions with band, etc. and royal insignia like 
chowry and the like. 


L iv: 10 | English Translation 


1 


bo 


917 
Adhyaya I Pada 4 


Upapada is the Pada of the neighbouring house (i. e. 
the twelfth ) from the Ascendant. ; 


If the Upapada (or the Second from it ) has a malefic 
planet in it or its ruler be a malefic planet, the person 
renounces his house or loses his wife, 


The Sun is not looked upor as malefic in connection 


, With these effects of Upapada. 


ee 


a 


The above mentioned bad results do not occur if there 
} e . Inapnada or its 
be the aspect of a benefice planet on the Upapada or its 
next, 


Tf the Upapada or the second from it has a planet in 
his fall, the person loses his wife. 


If the Upapada or the second from it has a planet in 
exaltation, the person has many wives. 


If the Upapada or the second from it be the third 
division (i. e. Mithuna Ragi ) similar is the resuit. 


If the Upapada or the second from it has its lord in it, 
or if the planet governing wife's destiny viz. the 
planet Venus be occupying his own division ( viz. the 
second or the seventh), the man loses his wife in the 
latter part of his life. 


If the lord of the Upapada or Venus be in exaltation, 
the man gets wife froma noble family. 


10 If he be in his fall, the Opposite is the result i, e. he 


gets wife from a low family. 


/ 


12 


13 


1g 


19 


20 


Opadesii Stitra [ 1. iv. 11 


If the Upapada or the second from it be associated (by 
his presence or aspect) with a benefic planet, the person 
gets a beautiful wife. 


If the Upapada or the second from it be associated with 
Rahu and Saturn, the man abandons his wife on ac- 
count of public scandal or loses her. 


If Venus and Ketu be there (in the Upapada or the 
second from it ), the man’s wife suifers from red flow. 


4 If Mercury and Ketu be there, she gets bone-flow. 


3 If Saturn, Rahu and the Sun be there, she gets fever 


on account of bone-trouble. 
If Mercury and Ketu be there, the wife gets fat. 


If Saturn and Mars be there in the Upapada or the 
second which is itself the house of Mercury, the wife 
gets nose trouble. 


The same is the result if the Upapada or the second 
be the house of Mars, and Mars and Saturn, be present 


there. 


If Jupiter and Saturn be there, the wife gets ear-trou- 
ble and vein trouble. ( 4t@#r ) 


If Jupiter and Rahu be there, she gets. tooth- 
ache. 


If Sani and Rahu be there, in the Upapada or the se- 
cond division from it which-is either Virgin (Kanya } 
or Libra, ( Tula ), the wife becomes lame or suffers 
from gout. 


f.iv 32] English Translation 219 


9g All the troubles mentioned above do not occur in case 
a benefic planet aspectes, or is present, in the Upapada 
or the second from it. 
23 ‘he same as above are the results shown by planets 
present in, or lords of, the seventh house from the 
Ascendant or from the Upapada. 


24 If in the seventh from the Ascendent or Upapada, 
there are the three planets Mercury, Saturn and Venus 
together, the person gets no issue. 


25 If the Sun, Rahu and Jupiter are in the ninth place 
from the chief Significatory planet, the ascendant, the 
Pada or the Upapada, the person gets many sons. 


26 Tf the Moon ve there, the man gets one son. 


27 If there is a combination of benefic and malefic planets 
in the houses mentioned above, the man gets a son after 
a long time. 


28 If Mars and Mercury are there, the person has to adopt 
a SOm 

29 TE the divisions mentioned above be odd, the man gets 
many sons. , 


30 If one of the divisions mentioned above be Mithuna 
( Gemini } the man gets few issues. 


31 All the considerations given above apply to the above- 
mentioned planets occupying the ninth division from 
the Ascendant or from the lord of the Ascendant. 


32 IE Saturn and Rabu are in the third and/or the 
eleventh (from the Ascendant ), the person loses 
his brothers. 


990. Upadesa Stitra [ L iv. 33 


33 If Venus bein the third or the eleventh, there is the 
loss of the elder as also of the younger (brother or 


sister ). 


34 The same is the case if there is Venus aspecting the 
eighth from the Ascendant. 


35 It Mars, Jupiter, Mercury and the Moon are in the 
third and the eleventh, the man has many brothers. 


vo 
[ory 


If Saturn and Mars aspect the third and the eleventh- 
the man loses his younger and elder brother respec, 
tively. 


37 If there is the aspect of Saturn alone on the third and 
the eleventh, only the mother remains, the brothers 
and sisters die. 


38 If there is Ketu in the third or the eleventh, the man 
gets many sisters. 


39 If there is Rahu in the second from the division 
occupied by the lord of the seventh from the Upapada, 
the man becomes possessed of very strong jaws. 


40 If there is Ketu, he becomes tongue-tied. 
41 If there is Saturn, the man is ugly. 


\ 
42 The white, bluish, yellowish and other colours of the 
body are according to the division occupied by the 
Chief Significatory planet. 


43 Devotion to deities should be considered according to 


the nature and the house occupied by the planet 
next to the Minister Significatory planet. 





1453] English Translation 221 


44 If the division occupied by the chief significatory 


45 


46 


47 


48 


49 


2 


planet be connected only with malefic planets, the man 
should be a whoreson. 


If the chief significatory planet be malefic, or be in 
the eighth, the above does not hold. 


Tf Saturn and Rahware in the division occupied by the 
chief significatory planet, the fact of the man being 
a whoreson becomes public. 


IE there are the other malefic planets, the fact mentioned 
above remains unknown to others, 


If the chief significatory planet, accompanied by the 
above mentioned planets be in the division of a benefic 
planet, there is ouly a scandal, and nota fact, that the 
man is born froma person other than the father. 


If there are two planets in any house, the man becomes 
the head of the family. 


See 


Adhyaya il Pada 1 


Life should be calculated from the zodiacal divisions 


occupied by the lords of the Ascendant and the eighth 
from the Ascendant. 


If both are in a cardinal division, or one ina fixed divi- 
sion and the other ina mutable division, 


the man _ has 
a long life. 


If both are in a mutable division, 
division and the other in a fi 
has a medium life. 

29 


or one in a cardinal 
xed division, the man 


999 Upadesa Siitra [ IL i. 4 


4.If both are ina fixed division, or one in a cardinal 
division, and the other in a mutable division, the 
man is shortlived. 


5 The same caleulation should be made from the divisions 
occupied by Saturn and the Moon (at the time of 
birth ), 


6 So/also from the Ascendant division and the Ascendant 
Hour. 


7 The calculation should be taken as correct if all the 
three methods tally, or at least two of them tally with 
each other. 


8 If they do not tally at all, the calculation from the 
Ascendant division and the Hour should be taken as 
authoritative. 


9 If however, the Moon be in the Ascendant or in the 
seventh, the calculation should be made from the Moon 
and Saturn. 


10 If Saturn be one of the two planets causing life, there 
is reduction of life by one grade i, e. the calculated 
life is reduced to the lower grade, or, reduced by 
eleven years. 


11 The reverse is the case i.e, Saturn gives the higher 
grade, say some astrologers, 

12 If Saturn be in his own division, or in exaltation, there 
is no reduction. 


13 So also, if Saturn be aspected only by the malefic 
planets, there is no reduction. 


Ii. i: 23 j English Translation 223 


14 There is promotion to the higher grade if Jupiter be 


in the Ascendant, or in the seventh from the Ascend- 
ant, or aspected by or in association with only benefic 
planets. 


15-16 Death takes place in such a Dwara or Bahya period 


as also in such a one-ninth of the life-periods as 
is afllicted or spoiled ; also it is likely when both the 
Dwaira (division ) and the lord of, the Dwara division 
are afflicted or spoiled. 


17 It does not occur, however, at the above stated time, if 


there is the aspect, or association of, a benetic planet. 


18 if the lord of the eighth house is in exaltation, there is 


an extension of the life by one one-ninth life-period. 


19-21 And during that life-period of. the Dwara, too, 


bo 
bo 


23 


death takes place at the end of the life-period governed 
by the lord of the Pada, or in that one-ninth life- 
period which is governed by the lord of the Pada, or 
in that life-period which is the fifth or the ninth from 
the lord of the Ascendant or the lord of the ‘eighth. 


Similarly there is the three-fold determination of life, 
in accordance as the chief significatory planet, or that 
planet who is the stronger out of the lords of the 
Ascendant and the eighth, is occupying the angular, 
the succedant or the cadent house as calculated from 
the Ascendant or its seventh, 


If the chief significatroy planet be in the ninth from 
the seventh of the Ascendant, the calculation is to. be 
made in the reverse method i. e, by taking the angular, 
succedant andcadent houses as representing short, 
medium and long life respectively, 


ry 


294 
24 


F 
25 


26 


28 


30 


31 


Upadesa Siitra { {I. i. 24 


The strength of planets (in this connection of determi- 
nation of life ) should be determined in accordance 
with the strength of the division. 


‘There is the medium term of life if the lord of the 
Ascendant is the same as the lord of the eighth, or 
either of them is associated with the chief significatory 
planet. 


There is the veduction of life by one grade if the 
Ascendant or the seventh be besieged by malefic 
planets, or if malefic planets are in the fifth and ninth 
from it. 


The same is the case if the chief significatory planet be 
besieged by malefic planets, or if the fifth and the ninth 
from him or from his seventh have malefic planets. 


The same is the case if the chief significatory planet is 
malefic or is in fall, or not in exaltation and associated 
with a malefic planet. 


The case is otherwise i. e. there is the increase by a 
grade if the Ascendant or the seventh be besieyed 
by benefic planets, or if there are benefic planets in 
the fifth and the ninth from it, or if the chief signi- 
ficatory planet be exalted, or not in fall and 
associated with benefic planets. 


The same is the case i.e. there is an increase or decrease 
by a grade if Jupiter-be besieged by benefic or malefic 
planets etc. oe 


If the Moon or Venus occupies the second or the sixth 
or the eighth or the twelfth, there is an increase by 
one division only, 


th: 40 ] English Translation 225 


32 Reverse is the effect in the case of Saturn. 


33 


34 


36 


37 


38 


Death takes place in the grade determined in any of 
the ways given above in the corresponding life-periods 
with fixed number of years. 


The following is the specification of the division 
regarding its occurrence. 


Tt occurs in the life-period of a division which is 
besieged by malefic planets, or in the life-period of a 
division which is the fifth or the ninth from the chief 
significatory planet or the Ascendant and is 
occupied by malefic planets, or in the life-period of 
the eighth or the twelfth from the Ascendant or from 
the chief significatory planet which is occupied 
by malefic planets. 


Or, it occurs in the life-period of the lords of the 
eighth or the twelfth house from the Ascendant which 
is aspected by the New Moon or Venus unassociated 
with any other planet. 


And there, too, during that life~period death takes 
place in that one-ninth life-period which is aspected 
by the lord of the eighth or the jord of the tenth. 


Rudra is that planet who is the stronger one out of 
the two planets that are the eighth from the lord of the 
Ascendant and the lord of the seventh respectively. 


39 The weaker of the two is also called Rudra if he is 


40 


aspected by a malefic planet, 


If the stonger Rudra be aspected by a benefic planet, 
the life period extends right on to the end of the Sula, 





926 


41 


43 


Ad 


46 


47 


48 


49 


Upadesa Siitra UL. i. 4 


If the stronger Rudra be associated with a benefic 
planet, definitely the life-period so extends. 


The life-period does not extend to the end of the S’ula 
if the Stronger Rudra be associated with any malefic 
planet except the Sun. 


Ifthe Rudra be aspected by the Moon, Saturn and 
Mars and if there is no association with a henefic pla- 
net, the life period extends to the next S’ula although 
there is no association with a malefic planet. 


Death generally takes place in the life-period of the 
division occupied by the Rudra which occurs during 
the S’ula period. 


If the Twelfth Division be the Ascendant division, 
definitely the life extends to the period of the division 
occupied by Rudra and never ends before it. 


If the Rudra be in any mutable division, generally life 
extends to the period of that mutable division. 


The life-period extends to the first, the second or the 
third S‘ula respectively in accordance with the short 
medium or long life that is determined by virtue 
of the position of the particular planets. 


{f the life is to terminate during the life-period of 
Rudra, it terminates in that trine sub-division which 
belongs to the Rudra. 


The lord of the division, which is the eighth from that 
occupied by the chief significatory planet, is called 
Maheshwara. 


II, i. 56] English Translation 227 


50 


@r 
bo 


56 


Wheri the division of exaltation of the chief signi- 
ficatory planet has any other planet or planets in it, 
Maheshwara is that planet who is the stronger of the 
lords of the eighth and the twelfth divisions from 
the one occupied by the chief significatory planet. 


Ifthe chief significatory planet be associated with 
Rahu or Ketu, or if Rahu or Ketu occupies the eighth 
division from the chief significatory planet, Maheshwara 
is that planet who is the stronger of the two viz. the 
lords of the eighth and the twelfth from the chief 
significatory planet. 


Brahma is that planet who is the strongest of the lords 
of the sixth, the eighth and the twelfth houses from 
the Ascendant, who is behind (i. e. withinj,180° or a 
semicircle from ) the stronger of the two-the Ascen- 
dant and the seventh from it,--and who occupies an 
odd division. 


If Saturn or Rahu or Ketu is liable to be Brahma 
planet (according to the definition given aboye), the 
sixth in order from him becomes Brahma. 


If many -planets are liable to be called Brahma, the 
planet who is kindred to the chief significatory planet , 
i.e. who is the most advanced in degrees inside the 
division occupied by him is called Brahma. 


If Rahu be associated with a planet who is liable to be 
called Brahma, the degrees are to be calculated in the 
reverse order, i.e, the planet with less degrees is superior. 


If the lord of the eighth from the chief significatory 
planet be occupying the eighth, then that lord of the 
eighth is Brahma (in preference to any other planet), 


228 Unadesa Stitra [ Ul. i. 57 


57 If there is still a doubt regarding the planet to be called 
Brahma, one who is stronger by virtue of the division 
occupied by him becomes Brahma. 


58 The span of life is the sum of years made up of the life- 
periods beginning withthe period of the division of 
Brahma and ending with the period of the division of 
Maheshwara. 


59 During the period of the division of Maheshwara, too, 
death occurs in that year which forms the subdivision 
of that division which isin trine with that occupied 
by the lord of the eighth from the Mahesh wara. 


60 Maraka or Anareta is the planet who is the strongest of 
the lords of the third, sixth, eighth and twelfth houses 
from the Ascendant or from the chief  significatory 
planet. 


61 Generally the lord of the sixth becomes Maraka. 


22 Death occurs in the life period occupied by or belong- 
ing to the Maraka, 


63 And therein during that life—period too, it occurs in 
the sub-division which belongs to. the sixth or the 
eighth or the twelfth Hates: from the Ascendant 
or from the seventh of the Ascendant. 





Adhyaya Second, Pada Second. 


1 The stronger of the Sun and Venus is the ruler of the 
father’s destiny. 


bo 


The stronger of the Mcon and Mars is the ruler of the 
mother’s destiny. 





IL ii. 11] English Translation 229 


3 Any of the planets mentioned above can be the ruling 
planet if aspected by a malefic planet although he be 


weaker. 


ie 


If the ruling planet be the stronger of the two, and if 
he, too, be aspected by a benefic planet, the death of the 
parents occurs in the S’ula or trine period of that 
Ruling planet. 


5 If the ruling planet be the weaker of the two, and if the 
lord of the eighth from him be stronger than the ruling 
planet, the death ( of the parent ) occurs in the S’ula or 
the trine period of the lord of the eighth. 


l=) 


Some astrologers say that it occurs in the trine- 
period of the ruling planet. 


ba | 


The rest i. e. considerations of the span of life and the 
like concerning the parents should be made from other 
factors. 

8 Some astrologers observe that the death of the father 
occurs either in the period of the Ascendant or in the 
period of the fifth (from the Ascendant ) if the Sun 
and Mercury are together in the twelfth from the As- 
cendant. 


9 Ifthe ruling planets of the parents are aspected by 
any malefic planets except the Sun, and if there be no 
aspect of any benefic planet, the death of the parents 
oceurs before the child reaches the twelfth year. 


10 The death of the wife takes place in the period of the 
trine of Jupiter. ; 


11 The death of a particular individual occurs in the 
period of trine of the ruling planet of that 
individual. 

30 


[ UL. ui 12 


Upadesa Sutra 


230 
12 If the third from the Ascendant or from the ruling 
lanet be occupied by, or aspected by, a malefic planet, 

the death is painful, 
13. If it be aspected or occupied by & benefic planet, there 

is death without pain. 

14 If it be aspected or oceupied by both the malefic and 
the benefic planets, there is peaceful death with some 


trouble. 

15 Ifthe Sun is there in the third, or if the third be 
aspected by the Sun, death is due to the order of the 
King. 

16 If it be occupied by or aspected by the Moon, death is 
due to Consumption. 


17 lf by Mars, death is caused by wound or weapon or 
burns or any similar cause. 


18 If by Saturn, death is caused by rheumatic pain. 


19 TE the third be occupied or aspected by Saturn and Gu- 
lika, death is accidentally caused hy poison, snake-bite, 
drowning or hanging or any similar cause. 


20 If it be occupied by or aspected by Ketu, death is 
caused by cholera, dropsy or the like. 


21 If it be occupied by the Moon and Gulika, death is 
'ustantaneous, caused by the throat being choked by 
betel or drinking or morsel or the like. 


22 If it be occupied by Jupiter death is caused by swelling 
nautia, or vomiting or the like, =. 


Ih. ii, 39 | English Translation 231 


23 If Venus be occupying or aspecting it, death is caused 
by diabetes. 

24 If there is a combination of planets in the third, death 
is caused by a corresponding combination of diseases. 


25 Ifthe Moon is occupying or aspecting the third, the 
death definitely results from the causes above men- 
tioned, 


26 If there are benefic planets in the third or aspecting it, 
death occurs in a country of civilized religious people. 


27 If there are malefic planets in the third or aspecting it, 
death takes place in an uncivilized country of uureli- 
gious people. . 

28 If Jupiter and Venus be occupying or aspecting the 
third, the person remains conscious at the time of death. 


29 If there are other planet, occupying or aspecting it, it 
is otherwise i.e. the person becomes unconscious at 
the time of death. 

30-31 If Saturn Rahu and Ketu are in the six divisions 
commencing with the Ascendant without any benefic 
planet associating with or aspecting those three planets, 
the person is not able to perform the funeral ceremo- 
nies of the mother ; similarly if Saturn, Rahu and 
Ketu are in the six divisions commencing with the 
twelfth from the ascendant and calculated in the reverse 
order without any benefic planet.associating with or 


aspecting those planets, the person is not able to perform 
the funeral rites of his father. 


_32 The above does not occur if there be-any benefic planet 


or his aspect upon the'six divisions referred to. 


es ee, 


939 —Upadesa Siitra [ UL. iii, 1-2 
Adhyfya Second Pada third 


1-2 The nine life-periods are started from the Ascendent 
and counted in the regular order in case the Ascendant 
falls in an odd division-triad; they are started 
from the house opposite to the Ascendant if the 
Ascendant falls in an even division-triad. 


5 In the case of fixed life-periods, seven, eight and nine 
are respectively the years assigned to the cardinal, 
fixed and mutable divisions. 


— 


The fixed life-periods commence with the division occu: 
pied by the Brahma planet. 


*\5 Now the consideration of the relative strength of 
divisions and planets. 


6 The presence of planets is the first and foremost strength 
of a division. 


7 In case both divisions have planets in them, that 
division is stronger which has a larger number of 
planets present in it. 


8 If both the divisions have the same number of planets 
occupying them, that division is stronger which has got 
a planet who is exalted etc. 


9 If the considerations above are not enough for decision, 
then the natural strength of the division is the deciding 
factor. 


10 If the strength be not decided by means of the division, 
it should be decided on similar considerations applied 
to the lord of the division. 


IL. iii. 19] English Translation 233 

11 In this system of Jaimini, out of the two planets 
occupying the same division, the planet who 
is more advanced in degrees in the division 18 the 
stronger. 


12 A planet in the neighbouring male division next behind 
or next ahead, also gives strength. 


13 Thus is described the first kind of strength. 


14 The aspect of the lord, or that of Jupiter or Mercury 
is the second kind of strength. 


15 The presence of the lord of a division in that division 
is the third kind of strength. 


16 No consideration of relative strength of planets due 
to their occupying the angular or the succedant or the 
cadent houses should be made in this topic of deciding 
the relative strength of planets in respect of a planet 
who occupies his own division. 


17 The fourth kind of strength is that which is possessed 
by a male division as compared with a female 
division. 


18 The life-period of the trine of the Ascendant or of 
the seventh from it, whichever is more powerful, is the 
peviod for the occurrence of the death of the indivi- 
dual. 


19 The period of the trine of the stronger of the two 
ninth divisions, calculated respectively from the 
Ascendant and its seventh, is the period for the 
oceurrence of the death of the father. 


234 


20 


27 


Upadesa Siitra [ If. iii. 20 


The life-period of the trine of the stronger of the 
two fourth divisions, calculated respectively from the 
Ascendant and its seventh is the period for the 
occurrence of the mother’s death. 


The life-period of the trine of the stronger of the two 
third divisions ......is the period for the occurrence of 
the death of the brother. 


The life-period of the trine of the stronger of the two 
fifth divisions, ...is the period for the occurrence of 
the death of the sister or of the son. 


The life-period of the trine of the stronger of the two 
eleventh divisions, ...... is the period for the occurrence 
of the death of the elder brother. 


For the death of the relatives on the fathers’ side thie 
same are the considerations as those for the father. 


For the death of the relatives on the mothers’ side, the 
same are the considerations as for the mother. 


The life-periods of planets begin with the life-period 
of the Brahma planet and the years for the life-periods 
are the same as the number of divisions from the divi- 
sion occupied by the planet to the division owned 
by the planet who is the sixth from him. 


Au interchange of bouses, e.g. the lord of the first 
occupying the fifth and the lord of the fifth occupy’ 


‘ing the first, is also a kind of strength for purposes 


28 


of calculation, 


The aspect of, or the association with a malefic planet 
is also a kind of strength (in the case of the third, 
the sixth and similar houses ), 


IL iv. 6] English Translation 235 
29 The exaltation of planets and other similar factors 
form also.a kind of strength. 


30 Association of other planets is also a kind of strength. 
31 Thus ends the description of the four kinds of strength. 


32 Re: the unfixed periods of life, the order should be 
the right one or the reverse one in accordance wlth the 
ninth division falling inside the odd triad or the 
even triad. 

33 Ketu is looked upon as a benefic planet in the case of 
these unfixed life-periods. 





Adhyaya Second Pada Fourth. 


1 In the unfixed (3%) nine life-periods, the second kind of 
strength should be accepted (for determining the 
relative strength of planets ). 

2 Dwara is that division of which the life-period is 
current. 

3 Bahya is that division which is as much distant from 
the ruling planet of the Dwara as the ruling planet is 
from the Dwara. 

4A If the Dwara division or the Bahya division is afflicted, 
the person gets mental or physical troubles. 

5 If the malefic planet, afflicting the division is in his 
own house and associated with Jupiter, the trouble 
does not occur. 

6 The various good or bad results, mentioned as occur- 
ring on account of the various divisions or the various 
planets, take place in these life-periods of Dwara and 
Bahya divisions. 


236 
7 


Upadesa Siitra [ Il. iv. 7 


These nine life-periods commence with the more 
powerful out of the Ascendant and its 


seventh. 


If they commence with a cardinal division, they are 
counted in the right order one after another in case the 
cardinal division falls among the odd division-triads, 
while they are counted backwards in the reverse order 


. if the cardinal division falls among the even division- 


10 


triads. 


If they. commence with a fixed division, they should 
be cotinted in the right order taking the sixth each time 
(e. g. first, sixth, eleventh, fourth, ninth etc. in case 
the fixed division falls among odd division-triads ), 
while they should be counted in the reverse order 
taking the sixth each time (e. g. first, eighth, third, 
tenth etc) in case the fixed division falls among even 
division-triads. 


If they commence with a mutable division, they 
should be counted in the right order taking first all the 
angular houses from it (i. e, fourth, seventh and 
tenth ), then all the succedant houses from it beginning 
with the fifth (i. e. fifth, eighth, eleventh and second); 
and then all the cadent houses from it beginning with 
the ninth (e.e. ninth, twelfth, third and sixth) in 
case the mutable division falls among the odd-triads ; 
while, if the mutable sign falls among the atte 
triads they should be counted in the reverse 
order, taking all the angular houses first (e.-o. tenth 
seventh and fourth ), then all the succedant hones % 
the reverse order, and then all the cadent houses in 
the reverse order. ; 


IL iv. 17 English Translation 937 


11 Planets occupying the houses in the order of angular, 
succedant and cadent beginning with the Ascendant 
or the house occupied by the chief significator, are, in 
succession, the lords of the nine life-periods. 


These nine life-periods are arranged in the order of 
angular, succedant and cadent houses with the strongest 
of the four angular houses taken first, then the four 
succedant houses with the strongest of them placed 
first and ‘then the four cadent houses in a similar 
way. 


_ 
bo 


These angular life-periods begin with the stronger out 
of the Ascendant and the seventh from it. 


14 The strength of the planets and the results should be 
understood as described above. 


15 Manduka life-periods are formed by the three trines 

' beginning with the stronger out of the Ascendant 
and its seventh and repeated four times e. g. they 
are counted as the Ascendant, fifth, ninth; then 
second, sixth, tenth, then third seventh, ete. 
- ete. 


16 These Manduka or Trikuta life-periods commencing 
with the Maraka sign ( sixth or eighth as mentioned 
above ) or the’ seventh from it--whichever is 
stronger—is called S’uladasa which‘is considered for 
determining the time of death etc. 


17 If the life-periods commence with a division in the odd 
triad they are counted ahead, while if. they commence 
with an even triad, they are counted back: 
wards, 

31 


938 Upadesa Sutra f iT. iv. 18 


18 The period of years of the various planets such as those 
that'are stated in ‘Ududaya’, or life-periods deter- 
mined by the constellations, should be taken as given 
in those various places. 


19 In Yogardha periods of life each life-period consists 
of half of the total number of years of the unfixed and 
the fixed life-periods. 


20 ‘These Yogardha life-periods begin with the stronger 
of the Ascendant and the opposite from it. 


21 Drgdasa or Aspect life-periods begin with the ninth 
house from the Ascendant and proceed with its aspected 
houses—with the house at the frout first and then the 
two at the sides ; then the tenth and its aspected houses 
and then the eleventh and its aspected houses taken 
in a similar manner. 


23 The life-periods are counted in the regular ordet in 
the case of the fifth ard the eleventh divisions (although 
they fall in the even triads. Similarly in the case of the 
middle signs of odd triads i.e. the second and the eighth 
divisions, the order to be followed is the reverse ani ; 
in the case of the other signs, the order is according to 
the nature of the triad—odd or even. . ; : 


25 The trine life-periods commence with the sir 


ie ae ongest 
of the Ascendant, its fifth and its ninth. 


26 The results should be understood from the Dwara and 
the Bahya houses as described above. 


27 The results should be stated by means of the various 


significatory planets by counting the life-periods from 
the stronger of the ascendant and its seventh 


IL. iv. 37 J English Translation 239 


28 The constellation life-periods should be counted by 


dividing the constellation of the day of birth into 
twelve parts and assigning one division to each twelfth 
part ; the lord of the life-period of the division at birth 
being the lord of the first life-period. 


29-31 The persons become rich if the lord of the division 


: ’ , ‘. SF = 
be in the Ascendant or in fall; he wets some wealth if the 
lord of the division oecupies the house of a friend. He 
is otherwise i.e, miserable, if otherwise. 


32-34 Tf the significatory planet be in an odd triad, the 


37. 


periods should be counted in the right order ; if he be 
in an even triad they should be counted in the reverse 
order; the same should be the case with Saturn 1. e. 
the periods should be counted in the reverse order 
if he be in the house of the first life-period, say some 
astrologers. 


The life-period is happy if the house of the life-period 
be occupied by a benefic planet, as also if the*house be 
ocenpied by a planet who isin exaltation in that house. 


Otherwise, if otherwise i. e the results are not happy 
if the house be occupied by a malefic planet, or if 
the house be occupied by a planet who is itt his fall. 


The other things, not mentioned specifically here in 
this treatise, should be understood from other treatises 


adr ofthe 


240 








We | Bippipis | EliGba 
| \ od } 2s 
| \ ' 
| | 
OM OVE; Ms |S BmeWel, —-BlBe= 
| | ok jo 
“9 °F OOF | B88 | = eb | SADISULN J 
| “Bible | {ozb Pt 


i \ 
as eee Seer eee 





A ypbeaeh | f Loz 
| 
| 

AR % 18 

b yeGoauel | § yoa 


4 ipfsanpes |) 2 nh 9B 





| 
{ 

o eee ee j——_—--—_-— 
| 


i<ep guasaad 
aSessed ayy | eq} JO XOU | 9019805 | xoutnbg 


aoysjog | xournbsy 


jo ayep = -maby Baydgye9ut jo) yeuutmgny} saummg  [suradg Jo 





payne) M101} SeatTap} WOLWSO] | JO UOITSO 
UL aoUBIsIC] | 


} 




















jo UOIYSO | UOTTSOT 





UtbkbeE lobk 
wejiblbk lobab 
tek & Blbeblbl 
theld pielebave 


1 bebb= be 
UD] balb b ARIA 


Weed & —s Y 


Pdlel2e = 


1 RBE ‘db tikes | ST'OS"X 


thle bebe Bitte 





aovsseg 





bee 


aut], 10 
1oyNY 
| ‘Good 








SYIOM 9) JO BE OU SUIPAVHIL WOLJoTaYY BOUAIeJUL oy} PU B20d1]S]OG 4c 
saxoutnby Aq paqreul svryesyBN 0} DSULLOJa.L SYIOA JUATOME Ur sadessed Jo JUOUIAIeIs IB[NGET, 


TON GTGVL 


‘€ “ON XICNUdd¥ 

















3 | | | % ibb | 
a Qq'y N26 L| 0 fek | 2 ipheapps ene | -Blkbee Sof Pana | Bk > 
| I 
| | 
| } t LAME see | ‘ J 
vere | Soe Piieeee fie: | PF Beek [Bjkabalie| tee sale Rellmp | eelZRiph > 
| | | | | 
| it Sidolbb 
| | Bile B2LIE Inde 
| i -n2bhjboD | PPbb 
ea! | i { 
= (2 izlbps)) Be -Bieke Ipdbb@lbp 
Soe Oster. 2 Oe Daye kebc-uitks fab | Ubkelte | RybSIb@3blnblke | bel BAIvin n 
& j i | { i 
§ | shesblab TRUE | 
S “Reb backaltb $b 
= | | “Bb! tubueBih kebb 
= | -buoSpdikdeeb 
“9-7 009 AF.98 | Riobte | = pilbe Rksb | Umble | -lbath capil bbiblb 
i | 
| ; | ApBibR eiB ibe /2"98hpllns 
‘OM OOFL | AFOF | Rhye | Fimivet | F in@ae © E Yoke | gel Binet >be “Bib 
| \ | 
| | | WW Habs ella files 
| | Bible lowde® “inlets TA 
O° 000z) zee | Eiakle |  Fiaee | beh | A itpie | pilhiRele pike [Spee 2 














Ung 


L 
¥ | 66 ce | G1 
ema 
‘0S ‘8h 1 | ch . 
GE 8G “FE | 6G) 8 
| 
= ge | €@ j 
a | 
> i 
‘B € ‘6 | ‘rT | at? 
seceaupy | ancno lb ome 
ueselY,J sBAvs gpv | 8 vABiupy 
ora yeanteg jequyelle 
TBI me | : 





ayy, “sept 


242 








[eoIsojorjsy Jo 


| 
| 
, 


{ 
| 


| -vuvavdpeqig | 


I. ( e[eSry ) syeunyd jo 
| grove tty sdnoas so suoyeoossy *¢ 





ALO}. Sp j SUOTIBAASN][E IayI 
p pus g's 1] pus (siisiq¢) spedsy ++ 
Cant 
sojdeyg . jo spomad ) seseqy pus 
puosag * | ( efepandy) agit Jo uvdg +. 


( Apoaaipur ) 


ALOLUy sjouxd jo suomisodsig *5 


aye uorisod 





sudBaypy | 


vyorel 





| 

| 
GL 09 GW se ‘yj3ue1js 198y} sIseYy “[ 
SBAIUS : 
urine | o1do} ayy Jo awByy 








‘sdaqderjo ayy 0} dajad staquiud 


ssaisoid ay} SUIMOYS Japlo  [BoISofovoryd ur - pauoruaue 
ABojoajsy 10 sxoog SuIyBI-yoode eay aq} UI payveay punoy sB sotdoy ay? Jo a[q¥z aarqvavdmo; 


6 ON ATV 


VON XIQNAddV 





“998 














20 = TT } Al ~» ! 
a = ae 01 0S By upededy ‘epedeypary “oT 
1g ‘et ‘6 ‘ <A fez optp ‘tT sqjauyjd vyeiey FT 
¢ 9 &d¢ { -¢ 
| ! 
sexe | ages | 6UtrllCU|l8e | BEF sesokeley “(27 


SuOoIs lAIp JUadeyIp 


| | 

! ge bi ut saoeyd quateyuy Z[ 
| 
| 


= 
tic os sasnoy quezayIp ZI Ut 

z / ee |W} aaepuaosy ya JO spr] y | 
3 | sasnoy jUaJeyIp Ut 

e : é ‘FI Fe TF | 6F OAC YT syeuryd jo suoryeulquioy) 

= | a ar 


| “w-eg |. 
‘EI OF OE RE | “E-E UL] | saouaproutoo ao se¥soX 


T9 ‘2 | TéI-Ss ‘NY guepuaosy ayy uo syedsy ‘x 
; 








&6 f1-é “Uo] | Sisey queaeytp ur qaug - 
| io | | C Ayoeapur ) sesnoy 
) S808 | G& = | 9809 £8 ‘Ot ia OFT | WlesePIp UI sjeuepgq -g 


























| / go 'so | ‘sUIBaI(T “9% 
II | | ra ro | ‘(susi0) wUUwONs-wist ay es) 
| zy | ‘(SBUSINGAENT) BIKORUDE] “7-5 
| | oor fog | ‘win S-eanyeiqyEN °¢z 
| oF | ri 6e voymelmag “Zz 
F | GE \ 1G | “BIBOLATWUSBY “7S 
d oT | | LG ye LE -epoyd-wSavapeg 0g 
% 0z | ze | 6 | 8 “BEIBABYBISY “GT 
i) 6 | ¢ — ‘Wasvig 0 vulUEP “ST 
C | 8 e 4 g | “wyPSIN JO vaLGPY “LT 
| | | *s08 
Lg | oF | | £9 FAL pue it J] | -nvo paw weep Jo eumry, “of 
z Sea (peawseg ons unute ° o1doq 049 Jo suey 

















245 


Appendix No. IV 


- 


ire) 


Fl 


EI 9} OL 


¢¢e 














| ABojoursy Jo Aydosonyy -9g 
| BeAISa Cg 
ereqaresud)) +}, 
“BUNACIY «62 


‘eallemaey “ze 





“B[SISBIBIPUR) “1 ¢ 
‘asay “G3 
ssuuslraodty “8% 


‘O}8 S[euuIUS ‘spzig 
O s}UaWaAOW puB SAH - 


So 


“eyeqel-eisey “1g - 


32 





