TT LY 
ASTROLOGY 


| meaty AEC hike litt tt tit 





ADVANCED STELLAR SYSTEM 


AUTHOR 
SOTHIOA MANNAN JYOTICGN MARTMAND 


A.S.KRISHNAMURTI 





HORARY ASTROLOGY 


KRISHNAMURTI PADHOHATI 


ADVANCED STELLAR SYSTEM 


BY 
JYOTISH MARTHAND 


K. S. KRISHNAMURTI 


CONTENTS 


SECTION I 


Canayvre YPr 


ri 


SECTION 


12° 
13. 
14. 
15. 
16. 


About the author by various people 

Astrology is a smence 

History of Astrology ‘ 
Available data tacomplete ae 
its use and hmitations e 
Branches of Astrology ne 
Horary Astrology 

Why horary astrology 1s preferred ? 


iW 

Horary astrology Hindu traditonal system : 
Prasoa Gyana Translation 
Utbrakalamritha Horary Translation 
Shatpanchaska Transiatoa 
Sinendhramala Extract 
Padmaprabbusuris Bhubens Dipekam 


iit 

Horary Astrology Western System. Extracts 
from the text ‘“‘Horary Astrology” by 
Dr. W. J. Simonite. M.D., Pb. D. additions 
by Joha Story, Edited by Emest A. Grant 
The time of erecting 8 Horary Figure 
What cach planet signifies 

Signs and Piaces “ 
Signs countries and cities ey 

Risthar’s Golniog about da eeen tallsued.. 


SS386S5 


$1 


37 


Sscrion IV 


17. 


18. 


CR=8 


Ros 


Astrology 

Hindu Unscientific— Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
scientific 

K. P. replaces Traditional Analogs 

Zodiac and the Constellation 

Diviwon of the Constellation into subs 

Erection of horsry horoscope 

Table of Krishnamurt Padhdhati for ready 
reference. Constellauon and sub 

Research to find out the truth 

Classsfication of the tweive signs 

How to judge? Physical appearance, characto- 
ristics, bealth, disease, finance, fortune, love 
affair, partners, etc. 

What the twelve houses signify ° 


Sacrion V 
Ruling plancte— 


<2 Eee 


» Bi 


Telephone trunk <all 

Friend's arrival. 

When will the servant arrive 7 

Child from school— Retum when a 
Railway receipt received- Paro] not 


yet. 

Receipt of drugs ‘s 
Train running late. When will it reach 
home ? 

The correct tune of birth (two examples), 
The correct posstion of the lagna. 
Ruling planets end the correc: date and 
tne of birth. 


PAGE 


S&F 


77 
87 


107 


116 


123 


127 
129 


130 
132 


13% 
141 


142 


29. ee or Vee Pmeee per eee 


results. 
30. Eclpeed planets. Matters signified by :— 


1 House 
31. How long wir one live? 
32. Absent personalive or dead 


li House 
33. When will I buy ? 
34. Free from financial worry 
35. Is there second marriage for me? 


{11 House 
36. Appeal successful or not? Negouetion auccess- 
or aot? 
37. Interview 
38. Is the report truc or false ? 
3. Exchanging commodities 
40. Is journalism good for me? 


IV House 
41. Will my third son construct a house? 
42. When will J sell my property? 
43. When can I have a vehicle? 
44. When can I dispose my vehicle ? 
45. Will I set foc compeutive examination? 
46. Any treasurc in my building? 
47. Will I get admission in the College? 


V House 
48. Will my love affairs materialise? 
49. Invalid child— Will it peck up health? 
50. Can I have a partner in business ? 


PAQR 


14 
147 


134 
139 


163 
162 
164 


168 
171 
171 
173 
173 


174 
177 
18) 
185 
188 
191 
191 


191 
191 
192 


iv 


Can I prosper as an sctress or as an actor? 
Any child for me? Who is sterile? 
Child-birth 

Any child at all? 
When can I deliver? 

Will my wile deliver a twin 7 

Am | pregnant? 

Whea is the child-birth ? 

Am I to adopt? 

Can | gam in the lottery ? 

Which relative will gain” 


VI Howe 


67. 
68 


Overdraft facality 

Will 1 be able to borrow ? 

Will 1 be able to clear off loans ? 
Recovery of money lost 
Entangied moncy 

Thefi and recovery 

India Strike 


Vil House 


0. 
Rr. 
71. 
72 
73. 


Can 1 buy bum? 

When 1s the marriage ? 
Re-union with husband. 
Will my husband join me ? 
Buwioem and partnership 


Vill House 


76. 
75. 
76, 


Can I expect dowry? 
Will be be chaste ? 
Will { get scholarship ? 


PAGE 


192 
ef 


195 


201 


Sa BREE 


218 
220 
Zoe 
225 
229 
234 
2% 


UE EEE 


258 
256 


s 3 


2 


: 


¢ Seerese 


oe 
= 


83% 


91. 
92. 
93. 


95. 


98. 


100. 
101. 
102. 
103. 


Will I get donation ? 

Will’ 1 get money by way of Will from my 
uncte ? 

Will I cosnmit suiade ? 

Will I comma murder ? 


Whereabow of father 

Overseas When? 

Any study Oversens 

Success in medical examination 
Will 1 go overseas ? 

Research and success 

Can | eapect a Wansfer ? 


Will 1 get some job? 

Will | earn at all? 

Can | become a polrician® 
Promotion and overseas 

Prosperity of the mettute 

When will | be promuted ? 

Higher status. any, when ? 

Senrority in service— Will |] have justice? 
Change in jod 

Reinstatement Whcn? 

Any foragn assignment to me ? 
Business- -Change of place 

Can | have a press of my own ? 
WilNl have satisfactory spiritual life? 
Can I become a Sanyasi? 

Any reappointment for me? 


PAGE 


257 


2: 


JERRY 


SSSR SER IIPAR ARTS 


@ Hous 
Wh. Osa eo, when t 
105. Return of missung s0n 
106. Is there any imprsonment for me? 
107. Will I be prosccuted by Income-taz Depart- 
ment ? 
108. Will there be any race in my house ? 
109. Which Gem ull sus me 
110. Will I get passport to go overscas ? 


Can I become the Premver * 
Which Ume i» good ? 


(a) 
(b) 
(c) 
(d) 
(e) 
(/h 
(g) 
(b) 
() 


To have a servant 

To buy an articte 

To sell an arucle 

To emter into service 

To sgn an agreemecni 

To start a busness 

To release a film 

To lay foundation 

Will I go overseas for probation of on 
premohon ? bai 
Whom to pray ? 


PAGE 


31 


314 
314 
318 
320 
321 


52! 
32! 
321 
32) 
22 
322 


322 


322 
322 


INTRODUCTION 


Four decades are over; the fth is on. Rescarch is bang 
carried upon the berths of persons born in the same locabty with 
an interval of 10 minutes, 30 mmutes and so 00. J concentrated 
the study upon the horescopes of the twin births. I collected 
data regarding the ume of birth of the twms, the various results 
enjoyed by them and the time of such events 

While carrymg ot such a research, | found that the general 
prinapla cnunciated by uur ancent and also those given out 
by the cholan of other couutrics cannot be anctly adhered to 
and applied to one and all: ut rn evident and clear, aprually 
twin bulls, sac: the cube may cvoew vut correct in the case of 
onc but fails miscrably in that of tbe other ay the tesalt @ die 
metrically opposite «With duc 1apeat to the karned autbon 
and to the asuiologuis who strictly follow the punciples, many 
vopeuliants have complsined ty mc thal there 5 nw coberence, 
nv clanty, whereas confinn and cootradictina do cxst) = They 
also have the lame cxcunc. saying thal plancts show tendencies. 
A few twist the rules and adrology us thereby made uteful only 
to the astrologers. Therefore. both the students of astrology 
and the ustrobog:n themelva have to honestly confess that 
there » no simple, correct and convincing method which can be 
universally applicd to one ard all. The is a fact. 


By the grace of God, | evolved certain methods wiuch are 
most convincing, very clear and pm-pointing to the time of event 
and explaining the nature of cvent tu the enure satafectoa of 
the querist und the astrologer. It gusdes properly. So, this 
method, +s the het and is very useful to the querists, as the 
Prediction come oul correctly, abo. 1 bring, name and fame 
lo the astrologer. 

Therefore, } am publishing the bock on Horary System of 
Astrology aftcr praying to God that thc Truth wich dawned im 
my mind, way be well caplained, property itusirated and exhaus- 
uvely dealt with in a lucid manner. 

R.A—| 


Let us fiest of all understand both the Hindu and the 
Westera systems. 


ASTROLOGY: HINDU AND WESTERN: 


Some are under the wrong mnpresmon that the Westerners 
borrowed knowledge from tbe Hindus ; some others say that the 
Hindus gained knowledge from the Chakicans, Hebrews, Greeks 
aadeoon Is the wew correct? 


The sages and the scholars m cach country garod at the 
stars, thomands of ycan ago, and they discovered the relation 
between the crlesusl phconomens and thc terrestrial moadents 
They evtablished same methods to fit the pmtion of planets in 
the Zodiac und the comojucat cflect on the animatc and mant- 
mate objects an th: canth Fach followed certain method to 
precect the crentx if ome has sucked hoth the spent. one will 
dectare thet acither the Hindus harrnwed fiom thy Westerners. 
NOT vece-verws. 


Suppose some vindenis apprarcd for mathcata.. cannuns- 
tion: copie. af the question paper wer: dairibuud to (bem. All 
were bisy amewering them The supcriniendont caught hold of 
8 sindemt called hum as onc who had heen copying the amwern 
writes by another student, scated in front of him =H tooh this 
ttudem and complaincd to the Headmaster that he had heen 
Copying in the crzamination hall On eaquiry, the swdent renea- 
tedly sard thai he had not copsod st all. The hcadmasicr called 
for the ans «er paper of both the students and compared them. 
He declared that the student hed not copied a! all and ibe com- 
plant was bascices. 


The student, why wa eccuscd to have comed, had ane 
wered the questions 1, 3, 5 and 7 in the question paper, whercas 
the other student had amvwered qucstions 2. 4.6 apd 3 = Hence. 
the Headmaster who had gonc Ubrough both the paper alonc 
could know the truth = The superinicnden' who saw this studcni 
wnong fest, and ako. off and on, jookmg ai the other student's 
lable. had msiaten hin. becouse both answered the samc matho- 
matics paper. 


Ssmilarty, osly when one sudses both the Western and 
Hindy systems, enc will confirm that the method followed by 
evther is absolutely diflercat from the other. 


1. Zediac: For both, the Zodiac is the pathway of the 
planets. But for the Westerners, the commencement of the 
Zodiac, i.¢., Aries O* retregadcs at the rate of roughly 50.2388475 
seconds every year. whereas for the Hindus. for astrological 
purposes the Zodiac commences always at a fixed pom which is 
about 180° from the Suar Speca-Chahiras. The Zodsac of the 
Westerners 1s culled Sayana Zodiac whereas that of the Hindus 
a called Nirayena Zodiac Therfore, as ycars pam on, m 
abuut 380 yearn. twill by owed Uset the Sgn Ance Meshe 
called hy the Hindws will cusctly corsode with Taunn-Rshaba 
by th: Westerner. The purtan of the Zodiac callod by the 
Hindus a» Tauri Rithaha will bc culled hy Westerners a 
GemineMithuns and so on. 


_-- Mueasiogs: Westerner. have devedod the Zoduc iato 
(2 squall parts and call them ns Solar VMaavons or ugm. So 
alto. Hindus have divided ot into $2 cjyual parte aad cal) each 
Jivimon au Ravi. Bul there b Uw difference in the commence- 
ment of the «gue as ciplamed above. Therefore, the arce 
covered by the sigm followed by Ine Woluwn aad the Hindus 
rm Bot the samc 


The Hindu» have snotiky racthod of dividing the Zochac. 
They have divided st unto 27 equal perts and call them as Lamar 
Manwoas, Conotellauiom. Astersm. Nakshaihras or Siam The 
Hindus give greater importance to this divruon They have 
found that planets transiting in tbe same sgn but in diferent 
Nakshthras cause daffercnt effects. Just Ihc cach rasi (or sign) 
18 sad to be ruled by a planct, so also the Hodes declare that 
cach star iv governed by a particular planet (0g) Aries sign 
(Mesha) is ruled by Mar (Sevvai): Taurus Sign (Rashaba) 
governed by Venus (Sukra): and so un. [hs p common to 
both the Western and the Hindus system. But. after dacover- 
ing Uranus and Nepiunc. the Westerners have alloued Aquarius 
(Kumba) to Uranw and Pisces (Meena) to Neptune. The 





Hindus did not inciede uns allocation. As regards the Nakahe- 
theas, the frit divimom commenceng from Aries (Mesha) 0° is 
Asarm ruled by Kethu ; the second 1s called Bharani governed 
by Venus; the third star rs Karthiha: rubd by Sun. the fourth 
Robi, lord of which sm Moon and so on. (itis given ins 
tabulated form in the teat Krishnamurt: Padbdhati.) 


3. Dey: The Hindus comider thai a day commences only 
from the mosacat of the Sunmse in thai localny and that a” 
extends til the neat samc om ihe same locality The Sen may 
me at 430 AM of SAM of 740 AM Ifa child is born at 
7-30 A.M. and the Sun mos only 7-40 AM. to that locality on 
thet day, then the child ts said in have horn horn of th 
previom day. Suppusc thc Sun rite at +50 AM and a ctull 
horn at SIO AM the Hindus comnlcr that it bom on the 
acai day They tahc the lord of the next day for judgment and 
preckct. Then tery important when the Hindus elect certain 
sutgenom 62) 10 undertake any propct. Aswc follow civil 
date. date changar at i maght = Muts for Hindu Sunmec to 
Suntne n a day, though, date changes at 12 maaight. 


4. Heresreope: Whil: crating 2 hurmayn and oles my 
predictiva the Hindu attach much smporiance to the ugm. 
houses and Navasma posasion of the plancts. But. the Wester- 
etre atiach wmportancy to the wget und hours. They heve no 
** Nevemsa ** chart at ell. 


$ The Heuses. Le. bhaves. Differ widely bctworn 
Esstera and Western »ysiem of cakulation. Wosicrnen calculsic 
the houses fram cusp to anp, whereay the Hinde tale the cusp 
as the medpornt of the housc and call the Hose as Bhava. 

6& Predictioea—Ududasa. Vimshothari, Ashtothan, 
K.alachahra data. cic. arc the vation dasat advocated by the 
Hindu sages tv predict cvcats m oac's life either to himself or tw 
es relatives of others, with whom he ~ she has or has no 
transection at al. The Wecracrs have ro daw system at all. 


7. Progremieon: Ther » no clear aod cahausnve metbod 
of ** Progresssom “ given by the Hindu sages though 4 5 umply 


mentioned by only one sage. Westerners follow this method to 
predict events mn one's life and have advanced much in Progres- 
sion. 


8. Transit: Westerner take the possvon of Sem in the 
Sayera chart to offer transit reuls. The Sayansa positon of 
the transiting planets iqreferred to the positon of Sun at birth 
But the Hindus take the Nirayvana position of the transitting 
plancts and refer to the radical Narayana position of Moon in 
the horoscope Further, the Hindus give the results accordmg 
to the Sign occupied hy the transiting planets and not the How- 
ses (of Bhavas) (ranutied by them; but the Westerner's take into 
consideration both the sigas and the houses transstted by the 
various plancts and the exact longstudinal distance. 


9. Aspects: The Hindus are of opinicen that all planets 
aspect the 7th house whercas Saturn has also special glance on 
ite Jed and 10th houses counted from the argn occupeed by it. 
Juputce aspeets Sth and Mh houses from its pusstion: Mar, 
aspects dtp and Bth houses. counted from the sign it occupicds 
other than the 7th. 


But the aspect folluwed by the Westerners arc cakulated 
surrecily. They call that the longitude between one planct and 
another planct of one planet and the cusp of onc house, if divi- 
site by 22}. the wpect » doeharmonnp, bhamifyl and advene. 
Also, they say ** If the longiwdinal distance among two planets. 
or between onc planct and th: cusp of another house, 1s divisible 
hy 18° of 30° (except 90° ard 150°) n considered to be harmoni- 
out, favourable and advantageous. They do not count sign to 
ugn, as Hindus do ; but they take the exact relative poston. 


10. Parents Westerners consider that the fourth house 
indicates father and the 10th house the mother. But the Hindus 
take the fourth house as the mother of the person and the Sth 
house as the father. 


11. Streagth: Hindus esumaic the surcngth of the planets 
by Shadbaia, etc., after laboriou: work whei.es the method 


vi 


adopted by the Westerners is very simple and they do not haw 
any such calculation. 


12 Ashtake varga: Is a method followed by the Hindus 
which = not known fo the ancent astrologers of the West. 
This method is useless especially in Twin Birth Charts of to 
those born to different mothers within short interval. 


Thus. many invianoce can he given to show that the Wevier- 
acrs and Hindus follow their «wn system which are absolutely 
different. 

Why both the methods are considered to be incomplete, and 
the Hindu System i» confusing and contradicting noeds no expla- 
nation But onc has to undertand, 

(1) How to ascertain the favuurable and the unfavour- 
abic diqpusition of plancts. 

(2) What nature of results a planct indicates. 

(3) The cract time when they will he eupericnced 

(4) To predict the diflesent tesalts cryoyed by twins born 
in thy same heahty, bul with an interval of few 
mrimuicy even though the wcondant (lagna) in the 
samc uga, the position of plancts in the Zodiac in 
the ugn and w Navamme chart ronains the same a 
weil w the dass and bhukt: are more or les samc 
As per prognsun the aspoct among the plancts will 
aho be semilar in the horoscopes of people horn 
within shu-rl micrval. 


So, it would be a prodlem buth for Hindw and Wester- 
ners (1) to cstimate the longevity of cach, as in some cases, 
erther of the tus pau away carly in mfancy and the other 
lives aloog. (ii) one g:ts married, the other remain unmarried, 
(ui) one has sicriing character whereas the ther p always after 
the oppowte sea, (1¥) onc has children, Un ther hua to adopt, (v) 
onc enters Government service, the other takes up business, (vi) 
one 13 2 lawyer, the uther @ 2 surgoon, and so on. The common 
aspects are the same mother, father, uncie, aunt, ctc. But. 


vii 


the number of brothers and wsters will vary in those imstances 
where one of the twins is a male and the other a female. 


Astrology can be declared a science, only when theec diffe- 
rences can be explained property. at least afier kaowing the 
results. It will be considered to be a perfect science, if its 
made casy and the students having the ardent desire, understand 
it thoroughly, apply properly and offer correct predictions. 
Herem cam the need for rescarch. 

By the Divine Grace, research was succesful Some truths 
are discovered. Later, after coavinciag my own conscience, 
from 195! 1 began to tcach my technique to many studcans (who 
are alrcady learned). 1 am happy that God has given me health 
to tour throughout India and coach up hundreds of studeats 
every year. Everybody know: that | am the only astrologer 
doing this service. 


Also, a number of astrologers ut Juanas, Poona, Kirke. 
Kylhepur, Sholapur and Ahmednagar wanted me to deliver 
series of leciuns, daily, fur 15 days and 1 did. 


A few cume from Bombay to Defhi, stayed for moaths and 
attended lectures al Deths. A few from Singapore, Kasuipet. 
Busewal and other places stayed im my residence and learnt 
Must of the disciples untearnt what all they kearnt proto my 
lectures, thoroughly understood my technique Just like a 
number of parallel mirrors, reflect many images, and the images 
are seen to infinite distance, «0 alko they mahc use of Krishna- 
muti Padhdhat). confirmed to be simple and supreme and 
spread thes technique. They have declared that this 1s the bese 
and correct method to foretell and satay the consukanl as it 
enables one to offer precise predicuons, even im the cases of 
twins born al an interval of only a few minutes. It ss convin- 
cing, clear and very correct, that 1s what they say There is no 
use fos the word “Likely, Probably” etc. Tendency ms used 
only by those people who cannot offer definite predsctions. 


If this book is studied. one will say after studying once 
** Aham Na Pandithaha™. A second reading sill give him 


viii 


courage and confidence to tay ‘ Aham Cha Pandihzha™. If a 
third reading = given, people will say that the astrologer who 
had read thrice thes hook can declare himscif “‘Aham Eva 
Pandshaha ”. 

Ths book is an eye-opener, It 8 a corrective one. Nt 
does not scocm incorrect dita. The expression is locid; ideas 
ave clear; arguments are convincing; the results are correct. 

All these are duc io Ged's Grace whom I how down again 
and eagam. (Uchchitta Mahs Ganapeth: } 


The mahortcs of Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan realised 
the truth m my techmquc§ They were fully convinced, 
ai many uncanny predicnons gven dumng the lecture, came 
correct and they were happy to hear the scientific explanation 
and to see that itcame truc. That is why, Geverner of Bombay 
Dr. P.V. Chenan conferred the uth “jyethish Marthand” 
and presented a Geld Medel ma convocation at Bombay to 
the author. 


Neat @ ms my duty tu thank thc eho wen heliplal to me 
lo mmprove the knowledge in tin sorence, 4) anal m my 
research and to brmg cut thir tcattood. 


Let me fins thank Kulapats Munshiji & or haviag sppomied 
mc as a Vissting Profeseur of Astrology in India to deliver loctu- 
res at Dethi. Bombay and Madras regularly and occasionally in 
other kendhran 3 imorovemenm: uf knowledge nm mainly duc to 
the most intelligent siudents (aged between 25 and 65) who 
would be requiring me to answer varicucs of yuettwm, and to 
clarify vanous doubts lefi unsolved, so far. 


Let me thank Sri K. Ganapathi, my cidest son, working in 
State Bank, Madras who hed awmsted me in every aspect, 
detene: appricistion and my beartfelt thanks. So aho, | thank 
Mr. Bala, Dells, for his co-operation sn ij asustance. 

Finally, 1 thank God so that this scicnce may be developed 
further by the readers to give amazing, astonishing. but accurate 
prediction. 


My final prayer to God is that this science may be used 
only to find ausprcious time for celebration of marriage, admss- 
sion in schools and colleges, construction of manuons, purchase 
of car, jewels, ctc., admuswon of capectant mother im nurung 
home, opening account in a bank, ctc., that all of us may be so 
happy and prosperous that astrology finds no necessity to offer 
imental solace, as | pray’that everybody should be crowned with 
WUCdeSS 


Peace, Phase and Prusperiy be to all of us. 


K. S. KRISHNAMURTI. 


ABOUT THE AUTHOR 


Mr. Krishnamurti, 


i would bke to thank you I wantto thank you. | wan 
to thank you because after ten months search in Indis, 
I had at last found a man who deals‘in the truth, the whole 
truth of the science of asirology. Right from last November, 
I began searching for of studying the sceence of astrology. | have 
met other caperty and there are caperts who have a great 
knowledge in Madras, Bangalorc, mght upto the North and 
across to the Eas: and | thought | had met the best in this field 
of study, and now I know I hadn't Because now that fortune 
has—or the plancts have—introduced me to you, | know the cuc 
or the quintessence of what was scarching for in this science 
Now I visated you at your home on the recommendation of some 
one in a bookshop after | had ashed for someone genuine m this 
scecncc. | came for ten minutes and stayed for three hours 
Then on the cvcning | attended your claw (ai Bharatiya Voedya 
Bhavan) which shoucd how much impressed I was Even now 
§ am with yuu 10 the thinyu hours of my May in Delho. 


The way yow conduct your clin was probably th: mos 
iapromive thing lo me because my cxipcricace with astrologers 
ss that nowhere docs a man want lo give away too much of 
scrence. It 1s oocuke. There & this human clement of secrecy that 
stops him from giving afl Wrh you, that docs not apply. You 
give, and give as much as the student can absorb and 100%, 
more too. But the thing is, you pve, and you hold hack 
pothing. You give for the love of giving for the scrence that you 
love. And I thank you again becawse 3 am going to receive from 
you for many years | can say and you can say, the pile of your 
magazines | am taking with me to the hilb. 


Regarding Your Technique, th’. is an Extraordinary 
thing. As I have sani. | have studied under a number of 
astrologers, but | thmk the technique gencrally 1s the same. 
But yours is extraordinarily differen. It changes the whole 


xi 


complexion and as a matter of fact, « fills in the obvious 
blanks that exist im the others. They are not consistent. Becawie 
we all recognise the cuth in ube science, we make allowances. 
We stretch our imagination a hte to All m the blanks. Thar 
should not be necewary ina science; because we roecogniec 
hasically the science ; we do that to Gill in the blanks. 

Your personal reading of my horoscope shows also your 
yreat competence and the effectiveness of your technique and 
how correct it is. You tok! me much of the past that others 
have told me and much more than they told me and i! was a// 
correct. You told me about the present and that too is correct. 
What you told me about the future, on the basis of your predic- 
tions of the past and present, | can only assume that tco will be 
correct and another most impresuve thing I must record here is 
the dexterity with which you arrive to fix the periods and the 
times in your head as you read the chart 


Within a matier of minutes, to my amsavemeat, yuu are able 
to chucadate those things and whech, whal 1s more, prove correct 
You are convinuing, you arc clear and it has been 2 pleasure for 
me, if I can say this, to study your (technique) ot the pesosful 
hours I have on the hile §=Mhank you, 


18-9-465 
24° 49 N 
ss" 1 E 


Yours sacerely, 
(Sd) B. PFUASAD, ata. 


(Extract of Introduction at Indo-German Society, Jaipur.) 
Pressdent & Learned Members. 


Mr. Krshnamurti has studsed thoroughly both the Western 
and the Hindu system, and he openly points out the failures. He 
has found out a method which 1s popularly known as Knshna- 
murti Padbdhau or Advanced Stellas Astrology. From the 
Magazine published by hum (Astrology and Athrishta) it is clear 
that hundreds of student in big cities throughout India are 
bemng educated by Mr. Krahnamurt: and he has sysicmatised 
Astrology in scientific lines. He delivers lectures. So. it has 
heen decided to have 3 study circle so that students and scholan 
of Asirology can asecmble together and cxchange their views. 
and akw tcach the new cnirants to thes fickd. The competent 
members will carty out the research dudy und students will assist 
them in collecting the data. crectinp correct horoscope. and 
furnishing full detab “Mr. Krshoamum: will pot us on the 
right path by frequently viuting Jaipur. Cime ever changing . 
nothing ts stauomary. madein outlook and living are absolttcly 
different from the ume of our Mahatnhis. Therefore, we have 
to render thés tcsence useful to the presont day conditions. cg. 
scholanship to go uverscas, aie travel, varicticns of professions. 
educavon im vanou subect. cic. With this view, we 
have started a branch of be Lastitute and the study cick 
utied 35 Rajasthan Astrological Research Study Circle, 
insugusated by Mi. Krisbnasmurt. | take this opportunity to 
capress our gratcfu) tbanks to the presedent and the Memben 
of Indo-German Society for having extended the invitation to 
Mr. Krishnamarti to debwer the lecturcs bere, whose real and 
valuable services are well recognised by all of ux. When Mr 
Krnhnamurt) »iuted Jaipur previousty under the lucky Pres- 
dentstip of Hon'ble Minister Mr. B. N. Joshi and Mr. Ramesh- 
wat Prasad Dhaman:. opened a branch and inaugurated thn 
study circle al the auspicious ume. 


ASTROLOGY—AN OCCULT SCIENCE 


Astrology np a noble science. It 1s as old as the age of the 
Vedas. It depends on the position of the planets ascertamed 
astronomially. It explains the celesual phenomena and the 
corresponding terrestrial events. The true meaning of Astrology 
is the ~ Message of the Stars. By using the salient principles 
of Astrology depending on the powtion of the plancts ascer- 
isined ustronomuically onc can forecast events for the benefie of 
all and a» such, . 18 a uscful science for interpreting salure. 

** Astronomy i excellent, bet & ment come 
Up iste life te have us ful) value, 
Aed act remeia thase 3t Olotes and Spaes" =—Emersen 


The whok work! w run accurding to 2 well-defined plan. 
Nothing happens by chance. Astrology Joc: not permit one to 
viasaify anything as an accadent, a it caplsim the came and 
fect of cvents The divine plan r well arranged) «ft os trmed 
with amazing precision. 


Sone suy that adcology ip an ast | Sanw ochets reject it af 
avidlc dram or an illuwon. Sull. others may speak of 
astrology us though it were an aliogciher contempubic superur 
von They contemplote with pity those who beleve it. Some 
of those who have no drappointment of other difficulties in bfe 
take pride in saying that they have no faith in astrology and 
tedicule both the astrologer sad the sexcnc: ~=— Probably they may 
fear that they may lose thew seif-importance if they were to 
recognize astrology. A [cw others say. under wrong impression 
of with prejudiced ideas, that astrology 1s not a scence. These 
people would nut have mastered the data on eloch correct 
predictions are based. This science cxplains clearly that such 
opponents of astrology will have in chcir horoscopes evi! aspect 
beiween Mars and Uranus of between Mars and Mercury. 
These planets, when affected. do not give quick grasp of this 
scaenee, goud memory and reproductive ability ; and they produce 
fopke who are either ignorant, arrogant. caspous of are always 
inclined to find faukt with what they are not abh: °o understand 

H.A.—2 


2 


Pretending to know everything. they display ther ignorance. 
The aatagonists often quote the opmions of such learned men, 
who do not want to admit that rt is a uscful sceence. Learning 
is mechanical acquirement of facts and gaining knowledge in any 
sudject. But eisdom is not so. Astrology can be correctly 
imter preted only by a genious endowed with divine grace and 
none can call himeelf wise, without knowing astrology. 

I subsnut ubat astrology is a sceence and that ii can render 
very useful service to one and all and create farh even in the 
scepuc, f one studees this book. 

A knowledge about the history of astrology and the iltustr:- 
ous and eminent sagcs and savant> who practised astrolosy 
would pve a hetier appreciation of the saacnoe itself 


HISTORY OF ASTROLOGY 


The hatory of Astrology begins with Creauion iteclf. Sage 
Garga says that the scrence was propounded by the Creator 
Himself and that Brahma handed 11 down to him at the time of 
creation. From Gatga, other saga: icarni a and it was sprcad 
all over = It appears to be co-cval with that of the carh 


In western coves there nm a ccortain hbelbef thal Scth 
(3.769 B.C.) was the world’s firs astrologer. This can he 
inferred from the astrologcal books written later by Arabic, 
Egypusn, Jewsh and Peruan writers Westerners bebeve that 
Setb was the first permnn to study the planets. thesr motions and 
therr pathway. It is he who divided the Zodiac into twelve cqual 
perts, as he found that the Sun cver follows a parucular path 
in the Heavens, year after year: and he siso noticed that 
thes carcular route of the Sun was spaced out by twelve full 
moons. Full Moon occurs once a month. Therefore the Sun's 
path 13 diveded into 12 equal part. called ‘Mazszaroth’ which 
term we designatc as ** Signs * Rasis or so'. 5 mansions. 

Around 2,600 years ago, the pricsts and the shepherds of 
Chaides took this scence for serious study and developed it. 
Ther pernod was called the Golden Ages of Astrology. because 


they connected the movements of the planets with all kinds of 
events m human hfe. 


Dr. Thompson says that the Akkadma and the Sumenans 
obeerved the heavens and heavenly bodies and tned to note 
their courses. The Babylonians and the Egyptans attribused 
some infloenoe over the animate and the manumate objects on 
the carth, Astrology was popular and 11 wicked great influence 
over the rich, the prnests, the pmnces and the kings §=Maspcro 
anid, that, in hes trme, the Mustress of the world was Astrology. 


Some are of the opmion that Astrology had its origin in 
Chaldea from time immemorial They suggest that the very 
name Chaldean ineans ‘ Astrologer’. The Pythogorcam further 
advanced the concepts of the Chakicans. They applied hagher 
mathematics. Later, astrology came into the bands of the 
Greeks They concentrated more on Natal Astrology. as they 
had a deep-rooted religion naturc and en caqunng mud 
They always posed the qucsuonm V/Who am 1? Why am 
I born? What for do { hve? Why are there sv much of 
inequalities tn tife?™ They had the amvwere only through 
ustrology 

Many of the records of the carly asirologers of Nineveh 
and Babylon are found among the early tablets in the Bonsh 
Muscum. some of their findings arc dated nearty 5.000 sean 
ago. 

The Greeks were also enthusiasic in follomng astrology 
They erected the horoscope for the ome of birth and presaged 
the nance, famuly, fate. fortune and future of the individuals 
One of the Greek horoscopes wntten m Papyrus sbowt 2.000 
years ago ws kept in the Bntssh Museum. The Chaldeans who 
Practised this art of Astrology were held in high esteem even at 
the time of Alexander the Great. 


The Egyptians were cqually ioterevted m Astrology which 
played an important role. They were also responsible for shap- 
ing the future of the nation As can be seen from the moov- 
ments, the inscnptions aad modern imvestigatoas. thes sciencx 


4 


dates back to $5,000 BC Pharaohs gave much respect to the 

astrologers of whom Batilus was the leader. He was always?’ 
consulted and the duty of Babitus was to find owt the charts of 

those who might per chance gain power, become a rival and 

create trouble to the emperor Whenever Babilus foreaw any 

such native. he informed ube hing, who _put such people to death. 

Pharaohs had faith 10 ubew astrologers. Often they were consu- 

hed to interpret the dreams of the king 


In Pena, the kings honoured the astrologers for their 
sound knowledge of thn science. jt 1 only Gjamasp otherwise 
known as “Al Hahim™ (meaning Learned). an astrologer in 
Persian court who preeasely predicted the ume of birth of the 
prophet 


The Saracces spicad the Science in Spain in 711 A.D and 
the North Afrncan, the Moor, in 1.237 canved the sence to 
Europe. ' 


Dr. Brewster admits that in China ahomn 9.752 BA fan 
tbe days of King Fohi. they developed autonomy nobly for 
Studying atrology and empcrom ucre choscn according to the 
profound knowledge posmened by them in attolopy In 2.513 
6 C. Cheuni was clocied a> the King in that manner. 


Whenever Aleaainer the Great went out, he tvok with him 
the attronomer Calsibens in all he campaigns fle spread the 
scrence in the east by giving out some of the rau0nal methods 
adamted there and his viet iv India had helned hin to feara 
more and develop it farther in hs country. 


Heary Comehkus Agrippa, born in 1456, was the astrologer 
to Francs J of France shen he was 38 years old, John Dec was 
the favorite avirologe: of Quoen Flizabeth Albu Mczar of 
Bulah wa the profssor of Mundane Astrology al Bagdad. 
The Caliph Mammonarrasheod translated man: anuent asiro- 
logscal works into Arabuc. 


Thus, every nation is to be credited with the knowledge at 
tes Science. [tit advisable to learn the experiences and findings 


$ 


of research workers who hed contnbuted to the techaique of 
correct prediction. 


Let me mention the names of a few foragaem who have 
cootributed to the development of ths Scicnor. They were not 
only scholars in Astrology but were renowned and reputed 
Astronomers, Historians, Philosophers, Phywcians and Poets. 


Astronomem: Ptolemy (67 A.D.) Galileo Newton Pythagoras 
Kepler (27-12-1571) Copernicus 

Astrologers: Alan Loo ( -11-1862) Sephanal Dr. W. J. 
Lhewellyn Hayden George Agnppa (Summonite 
Max Handel Carus Parker Monras Maurice 
Sibley Wemyw W Lily Culpcter Borcham 
Robson Newton 

Himtorians: Dwodorw Coley Pabwal Maan Josephus 
Phuarch Camden Heroditus 

Philmuphen. Lilly Macrobun Armtots Bacon Thales Pliny 
Anasagorus Phny Piolemy 

Phypcians: Hypocrate Fost: John Dee Gribert Panridgec 
Agrippe Suarkev 

Prets: Hypoceatcs Foster Galen John Dee Gilbert 
Parirdge Agrippa. 


in fndss, ot & said thal it was the sage Garga who handed 
down the Scrence to np diusaple. Further there are recorded 
evidences that Yavanas were very icarned astrologers and that 
they led many centunes before Varahamiubwa, who admired, 
m his tert-books, the progress made by the Yavanas in ths 
Science. Yavanas have contnbuted much for the development 
of this Science in India. There are records to show that around 
3,102 B.C. the [nvalor: Tables were uscd solely for astrological 
Purposes. 


The followmg list furnishes the names of a few renowned 
Indian Scholars who expounded. expiained and interpreted thas 
Science: Gargs: Viddha Garga. Assta. Aryadhatta; Bhrigu . 
Bnhaspethi; Badarayana: Baradwaja, Bhadalla Vevaswemi ; 


6 


Devais; Dravyavardhana: Garutman Jeevasamon; Kapila; 
Kanabuk ; Kashyappa: Latacharya; Manu; Mamtha: Maya; 
Parasasa; Panisa Prtamahs-Romaka; Ruishiputa; Sidhasena; 
Simhacharya: Saka: Sapatharshi: Saraswatha: Savira: 
Satyacharya: Sidhasena. Yavanachara: Varahamibura ; 
Bathothpela;: Prihyuyases: Vaiddyanstha Dikshithar; and 
many others , 

Thus it can be scen that astrology was held in grost cstecm 
m all ages by the leaders tn other scoences also. 

At years passed by, for various reasons this science, which 
3 to Live long, and which will surcly live Jong, has lost some of 
ts charms Bul scsence remains ever a scence. In every 
age. a particular science alone receives much attention and 
ts developed, even though every sceenoe has sts own innate vatuc 
and 13 uieful to ws «=. No country had cver pamed quiet wrthout 
any advancement in any branch of scence. So in every age any 
one sence may be ver) popular. whereas the other sciences 
may be ignored, though not tctally forgotien. [it 1s not unlikely 
tha: there are people cven pow those names would com as 1 
grost surpric ty all. there will be very carnest and loyal student 
of astrology who will popularnc astrology. 


Thn book » publmhed with tho smecere desire that Astrology 
should be made pupular. Much of Research » done regularly 
and systematically. Furthermore tt has to be carried out 
There should be fookpruvl methuds to read accurate results 
Students of astrology with half-baked knowledge should bc 
educated and umparted higher knowledge. Their doubts should 
he cleared. Those who bring ridicule to this noble science 
chould be silenced by producing able astrologers who will give 
correct knowledge to them. It is only with correct and cicar 
undersisnding of the subject ome can predict astoundingly 
accurate results, and establish that the noble legacy. astrology. 
given to us by our forefathers, is mdeed a xxnce which 5s as 
accurate as any other scence. The present possion of astrology. 
in the hands of a number of astrologers, is really deplorable. 
The excuse may be that there s no proper education to them and 


7 


hence the resuk 1 unsatisfactory. Even when watches are 
manufactured by the same concern, no two watches agree. 
if they are manufactured by many, one can guess, how they 
will be Simularly, astrologers and a few other professional 
usually offer different opinions, coafunng the already depressed 
consuktan: So | suggest that coaching up of students = 
absolutely necessary to have the same school of thought. To 
say that 1s not a fic subject cannot be said a3 8 wise statement 
from the astrologers pout of wiew. 


in many other coununes, avtrology is irchuded in tbe curti- 
culum. It 1s understood that, in Amencan University, Astrology 
1s inchided. Also, there are schook of Astrology in Germany, 
Switzerland, Holland and France. Now in Indie m Jaspars 
astrology 8 included KULAPATUI De MUNSHI = coadec 
ting courte on Astrology in Delhi and Madras where I coech up 
wydents and in Bombay where learned scholars wrth vast 
vaperience teach. Scsentific circles there, give senous attention 
to 'R. Astrologers arc to-day thankful to the Astrological 
Rescarch Association of New York winch publih quarterly 
(Edstor : Chartes Jayne). and all Research Scholars are allowed 
Io contribute Uberr articles. At present tn Inde, Astrology s 
bke a T. B. patent left uncarcd for, especially by those who 
alone can cure. [tr handled by afew. Of them. some are 
avancious, some others have commerciained « by fornine-teiling 
without the dewre to maintain the presuge aod utilay of 
astrology. Some alone sacrifice everything for this aobte- 
science ~The rash and worthless predictions of a few astrologers 
have debased astrology and these are received with sarcewr 
smule only to be dismussed. 


Nadis 


Some people feel sorry that they consulted “Nads “ 
written on palmyra leaves claimed to be written by the ancient 
“ushis of India. It is a fact that the events im the lives of many 
persons born and yet to be born are found wenéten already by 
Hindy genms. People who have consulted ada that they arc 


dumbfounded with the surprningly accurate predictions about 
the past event, but feel upset when the future eveats fai) 
miserably Tins % as common complamt Thousands of years 
ago, Rishis wrote these wonderful predicuons. When they can 
be very correct in all tbe predictions from the time of birth of 
the native till the date of consultation, why they should feil in 
uneie future predictions cannot he explained. 1 also agree with 
those who say that the needs proper investigauion because tbere 
are barge number of genuinc Nads and it b likely thal a few 
raay be unauthentic ones. The whution can be found easily if the 
paim leaves are handed owr tothe consultants, by the owner, 
who hold the leaves and read out the results. as if from them 
I am confident that if the palni leaves arc given to the gurcisi 
and if the reading of the past and present should agree correctly. 
the future must also be tavanaly correct when alonc the Nad: 
can clazm to be one of the genume documents. Our sages who 
had wiitten Nads can never fail m their predictions and they 
have never lanled. hecaux of ther onturtive power and <icatifc 


knowledge. 


It ow fikely that w few maders of the palin baves gain 
cnough knowledge and experience in reciting verses, componcd 
by thamelia in nu ume. A few of them, when they cad th 
past crents, have lo rcad very sinctly the material as 13 found in 
the leaves, hecaus the pas has to bc correct. Then only, the 
consultant will hears hum further. Hut when the future i to be 
reed, it m opcn to doutt us to whether he reads only those 
materials found un the ieaves of he himecif coins veres suiting 
to the taste of the querist 


In one case, a comulhant and hs friend caught hold of such 
a fraud. the Nadi reader. redhanded, because he had Maha- 
baratham on hand and read hn fc by having thow leaves on 
hand, looking at them and turning over pages after nages every 
5 minutes. Another cxpenence at Benares wa: also published 
m the magazine Astrology and Athnshia It is a pity that the 
existence of a very few of such people bring ndicule to this 
amazing Nadi. 


Another investigation is also to be made to fiad out whether 
the documents are genuine and onginal. There 1s the doubt 
whether the authors, i.e., the sages, knew all] languages inchding 
Tamil, ew . in South India, as they Jived in the North having 
Sanskrit as the Mother Tongue and Nadis are found in all 
tanguages also whether they used paper and pen as some Nadi 
are found wnitten in paper and claimed to be original. Whatever 
it mm, there are records now. w prove that avirology was prac- 
trod by many people, thouands of ycan ago who could predict 
cren the hirth tut of a native in 20th century, the place of hn 
Wirth, names of his parents, occupations. cte , and the events in 
hn Ife; marrage. profession, foreign jourrcy. property, con- 
wyance, etc. They had such profound knowledge. Now it has 
dvteriorated Ww a very great catemt, lke a moultimlboaare 
having afew hundseds in the hank. It nA imore uF les in a 
pitiable condition in India. 

In fact. there w prubebl) not ome science which m At 
prupersy umicrstuad, which w many prevend to haow, and on 
which w many an prepenst Ww cipro an onion as 1a the 
cee of atrology 

Weriemers ate ahrays tccarchmindod. If tiny hed any 
truth in any Malemwm and dW they are convinucd. they study 
i further, and develop it. ft may be that there arc failures. 
Yet they convder have it ns pussihie to prodict correctly in «ome 
casey, and why in other cases there sy failure; aad to find out 
the truth, they make research vil something «athfactory is 
daicovered 


Astrology avsileble data incemplete 


Astrology today nr incompkte snd nocds to be vastly 
uppiemented. No onc ® m powession of all the findings of 
our sages: nor arc we blessed with such a Guru who can impart 
Correct scoentific hnowloJp: tom. Whaterer we may Bave to- 
day is only a part of what they have left behind A subject 
laught by a Piofcssor will be complete. We arc not fortunate to 
have such an advantage ia ous bfetumc. So with what bttle 


10 


hterature we possess, we have to understand the fundamental 
prmeapies and then, by regular and strenyous work, develop it. 


Actrotegy—its Use and Limitations 


Interpreted m all correctness, a knowledge of astrology 
does afford mental strength to the feeble and weak-minded, 
solace to the depressed, peace to the anxious and worried, and 
steadiness to those who are wavering and vacillating in mind. 
11 28 a Common experience that when troubles come, they come 
im battahons and the afficted person gets solace from this 
haowledge that the time 3s not far off when bs oc her troubles 
would cease to cist. A full-fledged astrologer, capable of 
handing the subject with meticulous care, helps in no small 
speasute to dispe) the fears in the quernst's mind and braces him 
up to face the future with confidence and hope. The astrologer 
helps ore to have a glimpse of the unknown future: the hnow- 
ledge of Destiny in store for one, stands one in guod sted in 
surmountiag afficulue that orment themeclves. Thn carly 
knowledge render it pusuble for onc to reconcile hirmelf to the 
wtuation oac find. himmc!f in, and any severe disappointment 
1s unkhely stacc om np bricfod a to when. voc can cherish 
hope and the extent une can do so) =When Dame Forwnc 
saulrs aod the world appeam to be full of ruses. few have any 
use for the scacnoe of for the saying * Man propose and God 
disposes “. With the frownmg of fortune, cponm mellow 
down, and bccomes subdued. The knowledge gsined through 
the Scrence helps one to be level-headed under any circum- 
stances whether affluent or adversc 


The knowledge of the future prompts one to render help to 
those who are in need, banish evil thoughts from the mind and 
make efforts to lead a simple, honest and pious life. The 
saying “Do your duty with smcenty and icavc ube resuli to 
God ™ holds out a more forceful appeal. As.rology proves 
that success of faulure depends on our previous Karma ; suffes- 
ings are due (0 sins commilicd previously and this thought helps 
ws to be good to soceety, repeatedly saying “ Jt i probably 


because of some sin committed by me in the previous berth I 
suffer now ; bet me aut do harm in this life atleast to any body.” 


Beaaches of Astrology 
The various branches of astrology are: 


(a) Medical astgology of astro-pathology ; 
(db) Astro-matenology . 

(c) Mundane astrology oc Judicial astrology ; 
(d) Natal cstrology ; 


(e) Horary astrology ; 
(fF) Electional astrology : 
(g) Kabala astrology ; 
ih) Kerala astrology: 
(1) Omens. 
Let me explain what Natal axrology aod Horary astrology 
nwan ? 


Natal Astrology 


Natal astrology concerns largely with the hfe of human 
beings, A chart is made out for the moment of birth and for 
the partecular place of birth (Latitude and Longitude being 
taken for calculation). 


From such a chait, onc can read all cvents about the 
Rative: his chasacter, temperament and pecubaritecs, longe- 
vity, condition of health, acodent, proneness, finance and 
fortune. marnage, birth of children and aho hs prosperny of 
adversity Moreover, the sctwal date of any occurrence m bis 
life can be calculated. Thus natal astrology s very useful for 
one and all. whether be is born a Kmg, a Kubera, or a beggar ; 
for health and longevity are precious to every individual 
Fortune, prosperity, and above all, peace of mind and bappr- 
ness are desired by all. Hence natal astrology ss the most useful 
branch of this science and therefore, 11 behoves all of us to 
support and encourage genuine research, by trained workers and 


12 


scholars, to bndge the incomplete phases in this, just as in every 
other branch of scence. 


Ut 3 fect that 100%. coeroct predictions cannot he given 
wih the Mcrature available and wah the knowledge that ue 
may gain by studying them alone. It s only by plodding, per- 
severmg and patiently carrying out regearch that on will be 
able to fill up tke gap. suppicment, umprove, and make it 
perfor. One of the sub-branches of Natal Astrology may be 
drecutted for the comideration of the readers. 


There » a wsib-hanch called *Gochara Phalan™ by the 
Hindin. Westerners call 1 ° Transit.” Let it he stated, with 
great humility, for the information of the readers, that the 
racthod of prediction adomed by research scholan n. in a way, 
an smaprovement over the apphcation of the gscncral principles of 
auirology handed doan to us by aur ancient sages and <holars 


la the Westcra System, the antrulopens take the sada! 
posstion of the Sun at the time of birth and comider the ivlasive 
pouliors uf the Plaact> iraasding in tln Zodam and give thew 
predationa = in Ietes aml in the Hindu Syricm. the position of 
the Moon al the tomy of hearth of the native @ taken as the Mart: 
ing and dcicrmining mate wheh ih usiniting pulons of 
the Planets onc iclated, and a cofding to thor relative positions. 
we icad thy icults and say whether the tune i auspious oF 
not Roth the methods all tk found to ty: incompick and 
thercfore tbc percentage of Sailuses a bound to be larg. Tha 
cannot be of much advantage 10 tha who dedre to know their 
future. 


The Western and the Hindu systems uf predictions hased on 
tbe transns of ptancts fail in many cases whether referred cither 
to the Sun of to Uke Maon alonc 

For tramsitory resuho. Foriuna deacrvcs stnow alicntbon as 
fl rodicates certain revaks which arc pot sbown by ube aspect 
formed by the transiting plancts to thoec m the natal chart. 

When it s found that the results cnjoyed by people horn 
within a few minutes of cach othe: show diametncally opposite 


3 


results, we should try and find ow the factor winch is so fax 
moving as tO Cause opposite aspects and bring about such diffe- 
rent cHlocts. 


In those few munutcs can plancts move much? No! Then 
which will have a change i9 the position? bs it aot lagna 
thereby the other 1} cuggs and Fortuna. 


All research scholars will surely declare uhat the fast chang- 
ing ascendant the cusas of othr boucs and Fortuna cause 
Uiffercnt avpecis and produce diflerent roults = If therefore the 
cusps and Fortuna are alsu included in all calculauons aad pradic- 
vons offered, there can hy no greal coom for duappomtment. 


Reader will do well at thin stage U pune and ponder aver 
the wgnificans truths, placed before them in ib: preceding para- 
praphs, That Astrulogy, no doubt, ib an accurate ence can 
he proved by taking the folkow mg intiances 


Identical results are enjoyed by peopkh whow berth took 
plate as the same nunute. in the same Latitude and Longitude 
Let me pluce before thy rouders ina tangible and ¢y ucmatic 
form my caso : 


The first instuna: rela to (wu aions bom at the samc 
tine and who both got marred to two career gitls who were 
camming. They had no children but both couples were very fond 
of domestic pets. cats and dogs. = The two males vere lecturen 
producing identical roulit, with oqual interest in politics, philo- 
vophy and rehgon. Minor cvents in thew hees were also 
Mnkingly similar: for cuumple. both siffered from tooth-ache 
at the same time and on the same day = Yet, the two male part- 
nets were in no way related to cach other and hailed from 
widely separated places 

Another instance p about two men horn in the aune village 
sho narrated their expericnoss afler: they bad hved there for a 
fairly long ume = Fheir icmperaments. behaviour and character 
were identical. Both had pleasing manvers, were always cheer. 
ful and never rude ta anyone. Both were robust in heakth and 
whenever one fell ill. the other also ailed from the same disease. 


14 


Each of them lost a child in the same month, and had the same 
pumber of children. One was a journalist, while the other was 
a writer of fiction. Mercury, Mars and Jupiter were the signs 
who ruled over their profemions. The culminavon :n this extra- 
ordinary amulanty was m the death of these two aatives on the 
sane day. 


Yet another iastance relates to a repon. that appeared in 
a foreign journal m 1820. It meationcd that Samuel Hennings 
dseod at the age of 82. He was born on 46-1738 at 3s place 
situated in the same Latitude and Longitude. as King George III, 
who ascended the throne in October, 1760. Mr. Hennings 
was then an independent bwinces-man. King George II) gat 
marned on 8-9-1761 and on the suine day Mr. Hennings took 
Elwse for hs wife. Both had the .ame number of children of 
each sex «= Roth were bong-lived and died at the same hour on 
2-9-1820. 


Instances can bs multipbed for such remarkably coincident 
happenings The principles governing such events will be 
eaplaineds in my magazine, 


Horary Astrology 


Ths branch of saence m mysierrow. perfect. wonderful 
and most useful. After thoroughly underisanding the pnnciples. 
ope can offer correct. clear and precise predicuons without 
any confuson This belps the astrologer to confirm what 
prediction be has to give by using other methods which, when 
explained, will convince and sausfy the consultant. 


Generally, tbe astrologer asks the querst (o give a number, 
at random, within 108. The numbcr that is given forms the 
basis for the preducona Some may scoff at ths branch of 
scence saying thal the prabcuom given by Horary Astrology 
cannot be correct as the oomber given 1s. after all. a chance. 
They may suggest that the person could have given any other 
number or thought of one number and mentioned another. 
Guch people do not realse that the querist cannot give any 


13 


other number except the onc which be had given occanonally, 
the lucky quer:st may inention a number, but the astrologer may 
mashear; Calculate on the misheard number. Here the divine 
force so works, that the number taken by the astrologer pves a 
cleareand correct answer whereas the other gumber menuoacd 
by the quenst cannot offer such a clear chuc to the astrologer. 
They have no personal Aipersence that it is the divine force 
which works and enables the astrologer to predict. The number 
that he gives depends upon his past action og Karma as well as 
the future results he 1s to enjoy just as the moment of birth is 
the effect of his past Karma Noace can convince that one's 
birth al the particular moment. whether normal of cesssrian, © 
achance. If one were to reicrate, one 1s ignorant of the 
wonderful Davine Law. Has he or she the chowe of parents of 
the bocalaty of birth * 


Generally, this beanch of sceence is resorted to, mostly by 
those who have no horoscopes o¢ who doubt the correctness of 
them. This branch of science can ammer all quethons and 
clear all doubts. But on many occasions there are vonira- 
dxtory indications according to the brnh charts when they 
(sy to predict usng Traditional methods of prognosucation ; 
Kriehnamurti’s discovery is char, corsinang und correct 


On those cocauons, they can make the bes use of Horary 
astrology fore proper gusdaoce and coafirmition. Even when 
one docides to offer prediction using other branches of the 
scrcnce, Horary Astrology has to be used as 2 final safe method 
to declare with confidence ihe results already obtained. 

This method is as rational and as screntiic as any other 
branch of astrology and it is the sublime art of fore-seeing events 
frora the position of the plancts at the moment when one pro- 
pounds seriously a question about any emportant matter. By 
applymg st, one can predict the longevity, health, success or 
failure im one’s enterprise, one’s stay in forcign land or his 
return, the time of marriage, the description of partner, ro-union 
ot divorce, birth and death of children, sex of the child, resales 
of the exammation, recovery of lost articles. gain by lottery oF 


16 


races of speculation, success in litigation, treasure, legacy and 
anythmng and everything on the carth. 

This branch of sceence 13 not 3 biaff. It is not to dupe the 
gulhble throng. But al the same time, it is not easy for the 
students of astrology to make predictions infallibly unless they 
are thorough with the principles of astrology available now. 


Not Numerology: Some mutake thal the astrologer uses 
Numerology and predhctn They are ignorant. The number 
wadicates the ascendam for that query and he calculates the posi- 
tion of planets for that moment of judgment and then judges the 
result 


Why Herary Astrology is Preferred? 


Two find out th: event in one’s hfe of to hnow in advance 
the result of one’. aticmpts ar ucton, ther ane tua sacthods. 
They are Natal Astiology sod Hurary Astrology 


1. To ctect a horowope wih I> cum aml saort. ihe 
planets at correct position, the trme of birth should be accurate 


in Indie. the standard time was introducal on 1-1-1900 and 
any birth before this date way noted dawn accoming i the 
timing following by the postal authoritics o8 railway authoritica 
wn that locabty Before standard tum was introduced even 
when our waiches show correct lime, (agrecing with local ume) 
yet the mformation given to the interested partics after tbe berth 
of the child by the atteadant.difler onc frou the other. Bocause. 
the medical attendants arc smuuous to do their job than ta note 
the time. A few give the tune of Saras-udhaya. A few note the 
time when the whole body af the child had been removed from 
that of a mother. There are instances wherein midwife gave a 
tume, the mursc mentioned another, whereas the lady doctor 
differed from both of them. When such » Use case which time 
can we take cven though the clock shows the indian Standard 
ume correctly. 

Hence. the time of the berth » an mut of the cascs are nol 
correct at ail. 


17 


2. Whenever twins are born with a difference of few minu- 
tes and we erect horoscopes according to traditional system the 
picture remains the same for both except in the dasa balance. 
There also the difference 1s only by a few weeks. The position 
of the planets do not get changed, m the Bhava (House Divi- 
son) noe they move at all even by a few minutes. So the 
horoscopes of both the ¢wins appear for predictive side more of 
less same according to Hindu Traditional astrology: but 
Krishnamurt: Padhdhat: shows the difference. There are many 
instances wherein te results enjoyed by them are diametrically 
opposite. This shows that the moment of the birth of a child 
should be very correct, when only the prediction will come out 
accurately. Uf the ume of birth differs by a few minutes then 
this horoscops refers to sumeonc ebe and ant to the consultant. 
So the reading fash 


\. Any student of Astrology will not be able to carry oul 
(Nc: research for decades and decades and have a sausfactory 
solution. for the vanous problems within hes hfetume. Honestly 
w many centune will be nceded to carry out the research on 
Natal horoscopes to find out the truth 


4. But in Horary Astrology vac tances the moment of the 
judgment. makes a chart and offers the reauk. This horoscope 
will be very correct and the resuk ako will be smanngly 
accurate. 


5. One can understand the principles of Horary Astrology 
within a pennod of three mor.ths and he can apply the princples 
and in a year start carrying out the rescarch on Horary Astro- 
logy and find out the truth within a couple of years. One can 
Master this subject casuly and offer useful peedections which come 
to pass. Horary Astrology is genuinc and simple. It is most 
useful, as one can have the results or the solution for one's 
problem in a few minute. 


6. In one’s horoscope it may be found that the person 
wil have an agriculwra! farm but one cannot say which variety 
of crop he will cultivate. But in Horary Astrology une can find 

HA.—} 


out whether he will have oranges or grapes or time fruit or sugar- 
cane, etc. Therefore, to have czact and precise prediction 
Horary is useful 


7. One may predict that the person will purchase a house 
in 8 perticulas penod. But in which street and which house he 
will buy cannot be prechcted from Nata! chart. Horary Astro- 
logy 33 very uscful to make the sclectvvon out of the many. 


8. Ssmuilarly, a young bridegroom may have to choose his 
wife from half a dozen brides suggested to him. Natal chart 
can show that be will get marred but it is difficult to select any 
and declarc that he would marry only a particular girl, whereas 
Horary Astrology is useful to make the selection and definitely 
declare whom he will surely marry. Thus tt can be seen that 
Horary Astrology » most useful for one and all. 


9 Even in political Astrology when three or four peop 
compete for clecuon a few may have horoscopes; a few may not 
have et all. Even the horoscopes which they give may or may 
pot be correct. Further. when four horoscopes are given it in 
very dificult. to pitch up one out of the four and declase that 
he alone will win. But in Horary Astrology after one takes onc 
oumber for cach candidate then he can correctly predict who 
would win in the election 


Thus Horary Astrology will be found very weful in all 
matters to get precise answer. 


SECTION II 


HORARY ASTROLOGY 
HINDU TRADITIONAL SYSTEM 


TRADITIONAL SYSTEM OF HINDUS 


Let me first of all furnish the transiauon of various teat 
Im hs on Hosary Asurolosy written by Hindu sages.. before } 
put forth my discovery The readers should alto know what 
the Westerners have propounded. 


Prasna Gyane 


. Bhultotpals is the author of this work He had commented 
on Varaha Mihira’s works and thes text deals with one of the 
branches of Astrology culled Hotary Astrotugy. 


Teat-bouks of our sages can give only the fundamental 
principles. The result entirely depends on the wmicihgent antici 
pation by proper application and interpretation by the astrologer 
without tak'ng into consideration one's desire. Wishful thoughts 
and guess will prove to he useless. 


Prases Gyana—Transiation of the Text. 


Sleka 1: Bbottotpas bows to all th. seven planets, Sun. 
Moon, Marts, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Satum: Then be 
preys to Lord Ganapathi. He brings oat for the benefit of the 
teaders—- astrologers-- this scence Prasna Gyana. 


Sleks 2: He boldly declarcs that Horary Astrology 
will never fail He expects the astrologers to carefully sodge the 
ten conditions of the planets after casting their exact position. 


The ten conditions of thc planets are giveo im Jataha 
Parijata and their results are cxplamed in Saravali. 


20 
(8) Theeptha : Jubilant, buoyant, effulgent. A planct is in 
*Theeptha® of it is in its cxahed or moolatrikona sign, ce. st is 
very strong. 


Exalted Meolatrikona 
Sen Ares Leo 
Moun Tauru Taurus 
Mars Capeicom Anes 
Mercury Virgo Virgo 
Jupiter Cancer Sagittarius 
Venus Prices Libra 
Saturn Libra Aquarius 


This means that 2 plant on cultston af in Moolsinkuns 
sgn promises that Goddess of Fortune favourn the native. offers 
courage and bins with Victor) over cnemict (Lt is not correct 
im all cass: many wife: dung the period of the cralied 
plenst) 


+b) Seasthe : Picovant. happy: A planct is said tu by in 
Swastha of Wt oocupece its cen ugn, se when st om Swakshethra. 


Own sign 
Suan Loo 
Moon Cancer 
Mars Aries, Scorpio 
Mercury Gemint, Virgo 
Jupetcer Sagittarius, Pisces 
Venu» Taurus, Libra 
Saturn Capnecorn, Ayuarms. 


Planets in their own sign indicate pleasure. happiness, 
weakh he gold, gems ctc and ome can have servants at 
command. 


(Planets in its own Sign cyually causcs miser:.s and do harm 
also; it is not a guaranicc that such a pianct should invariably 
do good [It depends on the lord of the constellavon and the 
bord of the sub.) 


21 


(c) Pramadhita: SatisGed, conicnied: A planct is said 
to be satisfied when it occupies its friend's quarters. One can 
find out the fnend’s quarters by utmng the following : 


Swa, Swanthya, Dhi, Dharma, Swechche, Ayu, Sukha, i.c., 
count from the Moolatrikons sign of the planct whose [fnendly 
sign is to be found. The first, sccond, twelfth, fifth. nth, exal- 
tation sign cighth and fourth counted from the Moolatrikons 
signs are the froendly sign. The other sugns are said to be ene- 
mocal, i.c., 3.6, 10, Il and 7. One can easily remember that 
the seventh and the upechaya Sthenas counted from Moolatn- 
hona signs are not fricndly ones The lords of the fnendly signs 
ore called the friends of the planct ; the lords of the signs 3, 6, 
10, 11 and 7 are said to he the enemy of that planet. It may 
happen that om of the two signs owned by a planet is friendly 
and the other is enemical. 


The authors say that such a planet owning doth the frendiy 
and emmwal signs shoulu he consedered as neutral. e.g. take 
Sun ls Moolatmhons ugniskco Therefore Mercury ownmg 
Gemins and Virgo becomes the lord of the I lth aad the second 
sign counted from Sun’> Moolatrikuna sign. Utth is enemuical, 
2nd 1s friendly. So Mercury nr neutral to Sun; kd wgn Libra 
is owned by Venus which al tules Taurus the 10th sign from 
Lo, the Mookatniona of sign uf Sun. Leo. As the 3 and 10 
arc encmicab Venus is tbe enemy of Sun. Take the 4th sign 
Scorpio. It is owned by Mars who aho goverm Arics, the Sth 
ugn. Therefore Mars is {rendly with Sun. Thus one to fied 
out the fnendship, enmity and neutral condition of the planete. 


Such 2 planet causes cuntentment ; it offers peace . x 18 abo 
aid that one may have damach, riches ike gems and precious 
metals, enjoy one’s life and come out successful in one’s enter- 
prise and victorious in the disputes. (Just lhe friends arn out 
lo be rogues caussng danger to the persion, so ako plancts m 
friend's quarters offer undesirable resukts to many.) 


(6) Seatha: Calm, tranquil; Ifa planet is io the Varge 
of a benefic, it is said to be * Santha *; by Benefics, one is to mean 


22 


benefics by nature, ic. Jupres, Venus, Waring Moon, and un- 
affacted Mercury. Such a planet in Santha conditon shows that 
ibe person will be helpful. He or she will do meritorious deeds. 
They will be educated and learned. They can become advisers 
and ministers. Hence they can enjoy hfe with enough financial 
position and have peace. 

(c) Sektha Capable, competent, efficient. A planct is 
me °Salthe® condition, if it is not Moudys, Mooda and eclipsed 
but is with bnght rays. Such a planct will bnag onc name, 
fame, seputauon, honour etc. He will be hked by all. He or 
she has enough fnends of the opposite scx: so he or she puts 
on good clothes, uses flower and fragrant scent (not a 
guarantee). 

(0 Prapeditha. Troubled tormented. A planct is omd 
to be in Prapcedstha. if it m defeated by another planct in the 
Aight among themoclves Such a planct causes separation from 
close relatives and friends; he or she may wander from anc place 
to the other (frequent transfers, keeping the’ family in any one 
place): suffer sn the hands of the cnemocs of from il-hcalth. 
Thus he or she will he mactrable, cven a king will suffer (no! 
always). 

(g) “ Deeene™ Unhappy. tmmid worried, miserable. A 
planet bb sad to be in Dheena conditions if ertber in Ras: K undali 
or m Navara Kundal:, it ocoumes its enemy's quarter ; such s 
planet threatens lors of onc's position. prestige and honour. The 
person ny defcated He b ruined He goes to foreign pieces: 
cannal keep himself clean (not m all cases). 


(b) -* Kala “---crucl—-wicked—A planet s in ‘kala’ 
condition when ® occupie eather in Rasi kuodsh or Navama 
kundali, ube sgn belonging to any of the natural malefics, Sun, 
waning Moon, Mars, afficted Mercury or Saturn. Such a planet 
always coauibutes for one’s miserable hfe. 


(1) “ Vikale “-—unsteady, mficm, such a condition aries. 
whea a pisnet 1s echpeed (Saturn and Venus do not lose 
strength even when cclipsed. Uthrakalamirtha, kandsa IV 


23 


sloke— 15), loes of wealth, separation from partner, mentally 
worned, enemy's strength much greater and encmy becoming 
more powerful, agony. etc., are threatend 


() “* Bheedhi™, fear, threatenmg. frightened. A planct 
attams the condiuon of ‘‘ Bheedhi”™ in its Neechs, debilitated 
t.e., depression sign. Such a planet makes one diffident. There 
sao scif-confidence. He ss afraid by anything and everything. 
Loss of all kinds are portended. 


(Neecha Banga Raja Yoga: Venu, frend of Mercury, 
neecha in Mercury's sign Venus, enemy of Jupiter is cxakted in 
Jupiter sign: Moon, enemy of Venus exalted in Venus sign. 


Steba 3: The astrologer should start his work only after 
bowing to the planets. He must worship, when truth will 
dawn in his mind. Then commence to judge the query. 


The quent has to wt facing cast of north of north-east. 
He shuld uvoid taking such a seat, facing wcst. south-west. 
north-west, south, and routh-casl directions 


Varahamihira m Brihat Samhita has advised the astrologer 
Ww take seal in ancven ground under a trec wah flowers or 
fruity; he has to avoid such trees where owls and such bad 
umen birds take rest. Uke name uf the tree steel should be 
encouraging offermg mental solavc. Or oac should prefer Deva, 
Rishi Twiya, Siddha or Ssdbu Nilayam with Sath pushyam, 1.¢., 
the temple, the Ashram of Mahanshis, the residences of Brab- 
mins, the places of Ssddha Purushas of good Sadhus where 
there are planets with beautiful and sweet smelling flowers ctc. 
Why? The sight itself should be pleasing to the eyes. Lawn 1s 
meferred. 


Sleka 4: The consukant abo should pray with fruits, 
Nowers, gems and gold , then only, come out with hus problems 
and put queries to the astrologer. 


° Avoid taking seat under a tree which sastor which is 
thorny. Avoid graveyards. neglected temples, pacuon of the 
roads, dirty places, and dry barren ground. Reject such places 


24 


where persons remain naked, or saloon, slaughcr house gamb- 
kng den, hospitals, prison oc honey store room. 

Why because one can have favourable results if the consul- 
tant faces east. If he faces south of north, jyourncy 3s indicated. 
South-west and north-cass show that there is long delay in 
achseving one’s am. North-west and sonth-cast threaten failure. 
disappointment of temporary plcasure. 

Regarding west. in Prasna Barava 1 ss taken as auspicious 
whereas Varshanuhira advisers to avoid west. 


Both the astrologer and the consultant must prefer the 
moming hours to the afternoon the Santhyahala, twilight penod 
and the oghus. 

Neclakanta suggests thai the astrologer should check 
whether tbe consultant has approached bim with (be sincere idea 
of pleang his problems and then requesting the astrologer to 
solve them or be has come to test him of pul some questions 
casually. Thes can he judged oy finding out whether the lagna 
that 1s memg mn tbe cast ts occued by Moon. squared of oppo- 
sed by Satur. of opposed by Mercury of aspected hy Man 
and Mercury m moudyam. ic. cclimed If the ascendant, at 
the moment of query, hes such afflictions, the consultant is not 
sencere. Benefics in the Lagna Bhava denotes that be is truc 
and he has the real urge. Malefics in ube lagna indicates that 
he ss not plain and open [f lord of the 7th cusp receives 
aspects from 11s enemy of Juruies os Mercury he 1s crooked and 
not straightforward But if the 7th house as well as legna 
receive aspects from either Moon or Mercury of Jupiter or by 
all of them he is honest when he puts the query Benefics 
aspecting the enemy of lord of 7 when he aspects the latter. then 
also, he ss honest. 

Only when the consultant is serous and sincere. then only 
truth will come out; prediction will prove to be correct. 


After satisfymg himself, the astrologer bas to note down. 
the various questions, 1, 2, 3, and so on, if the person wants 
to consult more than one questiun. While judgme the first 


23 


question, take lagna a» the first Bhava, for the second quasuor 
find where Moon is deposited. Consider that sign as Lagna; 
(or the third question, note the sign tenanted by Sun sad take 
that sign as Lagna = For the fourth, the lagna should be the sgn 
occupeed by Jupiter: the fifth question is to be answered by 
taking esther of the signs occupeed by the stronger of the two 
planets Mercury or Venus and to on 


Sleks 5,6 and 7: In these three slokas the suthor sys 
that the astrologer must observe the omen (1 add Nisutham 
then also) at the tune of query and decide whether he can give 
favourable answer or not = it 3s advisable to read Bnhat Sam- 
hita where Varahamibira has elaborately deak with ‘omens’. 


Next, be explains how one is to pedge the vanous houes— 
bhavas whether they are suspscous and stroag to offer desirable 
results fulfilling one’s desire or otherwin: 


" Sleha 8. If the benefica, Mercury. Jupeter or Vers or 
the ford of th: house 1s etusted im the partscular houn to be 
padged. ur of they aspect the house. the matter ugnified by the 
hour will offer beneficial results. 


* Sleksn 9 A Bhave huoute--heonmes lavouratic J benc- 
fax occupy the 2nd, 4th. 7th. [Oth and 12th housss 


Sleka 10° if the lagna fall in a quadeuped of 2 beped 
“gn aod if an cvil planet aspects the Lagns. then the matters 
signified by Lagna Bhava fall through. One can capect only 
favourable results. 


Sleka 11: One can predict beneficial resuits of evils do not 
uccupy |. 4, 7, 8,10 aad $2 houses and wm 1, 4.7, 10 houses 
ether bord of Lagna cr its friend were to be deposited 

Steke 12: Benefics Mercury, Jupiter and Venus m the 
kone signs 5 or 9 and the ewils Sum, Mars and Saturn ia 3 of 6 
or 11 contnbute for the heneficial results They are sdvante- 
grows. 

Slekha 13: There will be esther disease of dixvcuee if evil 
planets are mn lagna: disagreement, enhappimess and disharmony 


among relatives arc to be prechcied, # the maicfics are found in 
the 4uh bouse. 


Steka 14° There will be hindrance and difficulty for cae 
to make a journey, if the 7th house ss affected by the cocupation 
of a malefic ia the 7th house; one cannot have success in his 
enterprises if evils are in the 10th house, but if they are conjoin- 
od with or aspected by any of the benefics, then the malefics do 
the:rr job by throwmg obstacies and threatening failure but the 
benefics ultimately fulfil the querist's desire. 


Sleka 15. If tbe fized wgn Taurus. Leo. Scorpio or 
Aquarius be the ascendant. one cannot be defeated ; there will 
be a0 loss ; dsscase will continue and cannot be cured . journey 
will not be made : but one can heave the rank of position which 
she expect 


Sleka 16 = If any of the movable ugns Aries, Cancer, 
Labra of Capricorn be the ascendant, one will be defeated. things 
will be lost, disease will ditappear, journey will be made but 
one cannot have the rank of powtion of improvement! in Slaten. 


if any of the cummmon ugns were to mie (Gemm, Virgo, 
Sagittasius of Preces) divide the sign into two halves. the Orst 
heW and the second half One n to consider the first half as 
though :¢ a fized sign and offer such predictions as 10 given 
for a fixed sign: the sccond half is to be consedered a> a mov- 
able sagn aad prodictwons given for a movable wen is to bx 
spplred fra the sccoad half of the dual of common or Ubaya 
magn 

Slehea 17. Ope can have bis desures fulfilled if any of the 
benefics 1s Gepossted m Lagna or rf the Lagna falls in the Varga 
of benefcs. 


Sleka 18. Succces m one's enterprac and the return of 
those who had been sway are to be expected if tenefics are situ- 
ated in |. 4, 5, 7, 9 or 10th houses and malefica are in 3 of 6 oF 
i. . 

Sleka 19 People who had gone away will return if Jupiter 
or Venus = depossted in the second or the third house. But if 


27 


these benefics are tenanted in the fourth house. immediate return 
of the member is to be expected. 


Steka 20: The perton who had gone out will retum home 
ehorly and the person is alive if Mercury and Venus are im 2 
and 12 to Lagna or Moon 


Steks 2): Encmy will come with his forces f the Lagna, 
Navamsa Lagna are in movable ugns and Moon 1s io a fixed 
sign. If Moon is in a moveable sign and the Lagna and 
Navamts Lagna are fixed signs, the encmy will not come (will 
there be litigation or opposition of competition can be found, 
similarty). 


Sloke 22: If Mercury, Jupiter or Venus 38 0a 6, Moon, in 
3 common sign, and the lagna in a fized one, the enemy faces 


difficulties and feeb sorry cven though he may heave sufficient 
strength (Even eye witness will fail in the Lugatioa). 


Sloks 23: The enemy might have procecded a bettle. Yet 
he will retrace, if evil planets arc in the Sth and the Gh houses 
(withdrawal of the notece agaunt the native— neo further proceed- 
ings). The enemy would have come to the boundary, yct he will 
go beck, if evil plancts are found m th: 4th Bhava (sai—m the 
court of law will be withdrawn). 


Sloka 24: The cnemy will be defeated if the wary ngns 
Cancer, Scorpio and Pine as well ar Aquarius heppen to bc the 
4ub house and revcive favourable aspects frum benefics (win the 
cusc). If the 4th house 1s either Ancs of Taurus and cv! planets 
are deposited there, the enemy will onme torward. He will de 
marching on (case will proceed) 


Sloka 25: Houses 9, 10, #9, 12, 1 and 2 mdocatc the 
offence : 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 houses denote the defence Bencfics 
m between 9th and second house promise victory whereas if the 
benefics are between 3rd and 8th house. they threaten defest (win 
o lose the case). 


Sioksa 26: Compromse or agreement or treety is to be 
Predicted if the benefics are in Virgo or Libra oc first half of 


Sagittarius or Aquarius. There cannot be any treaty if malefics 
ocoapy theec signs. It 1s said that these signs must be emther 
lagna or the 12th or the 11th house 


Sleka 27: Even a strong person cannot keep good health 
if the lagna receives aspect from evil planets, Moon is in 3 of 6 
o¢ 10 of tl and the heneficial planets opcupy 1, 4, 5, 7, 8, 9 and 
10th houses. 


Sleks 28 The consultant will have the recovery from 
the dricase if Jupiter aspects the lagna occupied by strong 
Mooa or if Venus or Jupiter is deposited in! or 4 of 7 of 10. 


Steha 29: A person can have a partner for marnage if 
Moon aspocted by Jupiter ocoupies 3, 6.7. 10 and 11th bhava; 
But if malchcs aspect such a Moon, me 1s not come to have a 
partner for marriage. 


Steks 30: The petson can get marriage st Moon in 3. 5, 
6. 7, o¢ 11 receavcs aspect from Jupiter. Sun or Meroury. 


Stoke 31: If thc bonefics are in 1, 4, 5.7.9 of 10 even then 
oO will pet marned = The rank, character. physical features. 
ete . will be good if the 7th howe 1 ruled by a benefic. If the 
7th house « governed by a maiefic, the partner will be less in 
rank docs not look brght znd the cumplcawn o not fair. 


Sleha 32: Renctcs in Sof FI promuse bath of children 
Male child is to be predicted of the luminanics Sun and Moon. 
Jupster and the lagna are in positive ugns 

Sleks 33: But if they are m negative sigm, cxpect female 
child. Ifsome are in masculine signs and some in feminine 
sgns, find out the strongest of them note the sign cocupied by it 
and then declare the results. A male child wil) be the result sf 
the houses 1, 3, 5, 7, 9. o¢ 11 s& occupeed by Satura 

Stoks 34: Male child is to be capected if strong Jupiter 
and Venus are in masculine signs: Jupiter, Moca and Mars in 
even ségns denote the delivery of a female child. 

Sleks: (35, 36 37). Taste. Note which planet is tenanted 
in a Kendhra counted from the Lagna (Horary) and 3s strong. 


also those which occupy the Lagna uf query or aspect the Lagna. 
Those planets indicate which taste; the person would rebsh and 
enjoy. It ts indicated by that strong planct. If these planets are 
situated in the sign belonging to natural benefics, one takes good 
dish. If they are in the signs owned by malefics, onc will prefer 
dry fruits, dry sutatances and flat ones. Sun denotes pungent 
taste: Moon, sultish ; Man, bitter and hot. Mercury, many 
tastes mingled together; Jupiter- -Sweet (according to me—flat 
also). Venus --Sour— Saturn cold ; old , preserved ctc. astringent 
If the planct is in direct motion, one takes the food, if it rs retro- 
grade, even though there 18 food. he docs not take. 


Slehs. (38, 39, 40.41 42) Dreams. Nove the Lagna at 
qu ty and the planet posited in the Lagna = If Sus ison Logna. 
onc would have dreams th: King (Government), firc. red dress 
ctc. Moon indicates Gime (white) pearls, dancing gi. | drees and 
white flowers. Mart shows red ons. corals, bleeding. uncooked 
meat, gold. cuc.. Mercury denotes aus. flight. Jupster reunion 
with he kith and kin. Verus. travel in the sea of cromme the 
nver, Saturn, to walk up the full. “Many phancts om th: Lagos 
imdscate that one would have dream all those mdacated by those 
planets. If those plancts happen to be weak by occupying Neochs 
wugn or enemy's camp. then the dream indicates come adverse of 
undesirable retulty if Lagna 3 occupeed by Sep and aspected 
hy Moon of both Sua and Moon in 7. aspecting lagna. shuw 
thac the querist has actually drearm. Note the number of 


navamsas already passed. From thi cabeulate the tme when 
vee dreamt. 


Sleka. (43, 44, 3$ 46). Reis. Predoct good rain if Venus 
ot Muon occupres the lagna winch 13 ther in Cancer—Kataka 
of Pisces-- Moena or Capricorm-Makara. Pienty of ram is to be 
portrayed if Venus of Moun occupies the angular. ugns Ken. 
dhra Sthana and natural benefics aspect them. If evil planets 
aspect, there will he ram but it will be unsatisfactory. If Venus 
and Saturn are in 7 to Moon or Sun or if they occupy the second, 
third, fourth o: the 8th house counted from lagna. and if the 
query is put during the penod of monwon predx. that therc 


30 


will be rain. If Moon is im the Lagna—a watery sign—or if 
beacfics occupy watery signs, of if they are in 2, 4, 7 of 10 
expect ram. 

Stokes (47) Theft. The thef will be of short stature if the 
Lagna at query  Aquanus, Pisces, Anes or Taurus. Gemini, 
Caacer, Sagttanus and Capricorn indicate onc of middie stature, 
average haght. The other four signs denote tall fellows. 


Sleka. (483) What 1 hidden in the hand? If Sun and Mars 
are utuated in | of 4 of 7 of 10, one will have some metal in his 
hand. Some part of a plant or a tree of iis root may be in the 
hand of Saturn and Mercury are posited mm the Lagna of query 
or4o¢7or 10 If Moon or Jupiter or Venus occupy any of 
the Kendhra sgm, one will have any bviag onc. 


Sleka (49) Coleer. Sun denotes red, Moon white, Mars 
red, Mercury green, Jupiter yellow. Satura dark. 


Stoke (50.41) Sespe Sun indicate. rectangle, square. 
parallelogram, shombus ctc Moon hollow Mars round Mer. 
cury high, tall Jupiter round, arcular. Venus beautiful and good 
beght. Saturn hollow and abo tall (emacated wiry) This 
shape can be used to find out the shape of the witance lost by 
theft 


Sleka. (52 $3). Uf Lagna fal m Leo or Anes or Scorpio 
owned by Sun and Mars and if these two planets esther occupy 
or aspect the Lagna, then tbe query 1 about some mineral. 
Wheo Gemini. Virgo, Capnooin and Aquarrus happen to be tbe 
lagna and it 3 occumed by of aspected by the owners Mercury 
and Saturn, the query is about some root or wood. If Taurus, 
Libra, Cancer, Leo, Sagittarius or Pisces rises as lagna, and if 
the lagna is occupied by or aspected by Venus, Moon and Jupi- 
ter the query 33 about a hwmng person. 


Sleks: (54 Ww 59). If the query ascendan' or navarnss 
Lagna happens to be Taurus, Leo. Scorpio or Aquarius or if the 
Lagna is Vargotams, the theft souk have been committed by one 
of the relauves. If the ascendant is a chara rasi—movahie sign. 


31 


the theft is committed by a stranger. If the Lagna falls in the 
first drekkana, the property that is considered to be lost by theft 
will be at the gate of the house. If the Lagna is in the middle 
drekkana, that which is said to be lost is inside the house if it is 
the third drekkana, the stolen property will be in the back yard. 
The property will be recovered back. (1) if the Lagna is occu- 
pied by full Moon, (2)*if the Lagna is occupied by a benefic, 
(3) if the Lagna falls in Gemini, Leo, Virgo, Libra, Scorpio or 
Aquarius (Sirshodaya signs) and benefics aspect the Lagna or 
(4) if benefics occupy 2, 4, 7, 3, 6, 10 or 11th house. 


Note the planets in the Kendhra. The direction is deter- 
mined from the planet occupying the Kendhra sign. If there 
is no planct in any kendhra. find out from the ascendant 
itself. 


Sloka: (60 to 69). Note the time of query. Calculate the 
ascendant rising for that moment in that locality. Erect a stick in 
the qpen ground and let it stand for 12 inches. Measure the length 
of the shadow in inches. Same unit is to be taken. Convert 
the number of degrees and minutes in the sign in which the lagna 
has fallen. Ignore the number of signs passed. Multiply these 
minutes with the number of inches of the shadow. Divide by 7. 
Take the remainder alone. (There is nothing as Zero. If 
the product is completely divisible hy 7, take the remainder 
as 7.) 


Then Gunakara for Sun is 5; Moon 21; Mars 14: 
Mercury 9; Jupiter 8; Venus 3; and Saturn I!. If one is the 
remainder take Moon and so on. 


Now, take the product, muluply by the Gunakara of the 
planet obtained (by the remainder), again divide by 7 (this 
product). If the balance indicates the natural hbencfics the 
querist will be successful in his enterprise. If the remainder 
denotes a malefic. only adverse results are to be predicted. 


* Then to note the timing of event, follow the rule given 
below. Take the product obtained by multiplying the number 


Id 


of minutes of the lagna the length of the Shadow and Gunakara. 
Then take the sum total] of the Gunakaras which is 71. Divide 
that product by 71. Take the remainder. Take the Gunakara 
of the planet obtained previously; in the cyclic order go on 
deducting. The remainder indicates the planet. If the remai- 
nder so obtained denote Sun, in so many days, the matter will 
materialise favourably ; so also predict for Mars. 


If the remainder indicates Moon, so many Pakshas— fort- 
nights have to pass for fruitful results; so also for Venus. 
Mercury shows that the matter is successful in double the number 
of months. Sf it is Jupiter in so many months, if it is Saturn, 
so many years. This is applicable for pregnancy, income. 
journey outward and retum., success, failure. etc. 


in the night hours, there can be no shadow. So care- 
fully note the first syllable of the word spoken by the que- 
rist. Uf it is *A‘. the lord is Sun if it is * Ya" *Sa*, lord 
in Moon. *Ka" is signified by Mars. *Ta*® in ruled by 
Mercury ‘Tha’ by Jupiter. *Cha® by Venus, ‘Pa* by Saturn. 
Each syllable has 4 classes. The lagna will be owned by the 
planet which governs the first syllable. If the syllable belongs 
to planets other than Sun and Moon, the sccond and 4th of 
the class of the svllable incicates the feminine sign owned by 
the planet. But if the syllable belongs to the other class, the 
lagna will be in the masculine sign of the planet. In the case 
of Sun and Moon ail the four classes indicate their only 
sign. 


Thus taking the lagna, one had to proceed. If one puts 
many queries, take the first syllable for each query, when 
that query is put. 


Sloka: 70. The author wants to oblige his pupils. He 
has looked into all thc works on this subject and has produced 
in Arya metre seventy verses and called it as ‘‘ Prasna 
Gyana”™. 


UTHRAKALAMRITHA 


By 
KALIDAS 


(Any difference in results between Natal aad Horary chart.) 

Sleka 1: Ip the previous six chapters bow to predict the 
results for s person tak.ng hes birth horoscope is explained If 
no horoscope 1s ava:lable the results can be predicted by taking 
the ume of query. The results obtained by scrutinising the 
birth chart or the Blorary chart crected for the time of query 
will be the same. They will not differ. (f at unc time of query 
1 3 Cloudy and it is not possible to ascerusin the exact time 
which would have passed from sunnec then by putting further 
questions to the querist, hes horoscope cen be erected. 


(What the Consultant and Astrologer should do.) 


_ Seka 2 [Fhe consukant wy advieed to take frats aad fas 
tw the astrologer. If the quernst 1s asked to gve any number 
between one und 108. he should give any one number Then 
the astrologer takes the aumber for further calculation and 
prediction whether the result is favourable of not. The astro- 
loger explains the past and fulure aficr he prays to his diety. 


(How to erect tbe horoscope of a person who has lost it) 


Sleka 3: Divide by 9 the number given by the consultant. 
Note down the quotient and the remaindcr. The former denote, 
how many rasés (signs) frum Anes (Mesha) has to be counted 
aod the lattcr indicates the exact Navamsa to be taken in the 
next sign. Work out the position of the planet and note down 
the Bhavas for thie horoscope ; one has ‘o predict the resuhs 
whether advantageous of not. One should consider the strength 
uf the planets and also to which matters each planet is the 
Chief Governor. 


Sloka 4: Calculate the number of flowcrs and the units 
of money given to the astrologer by the consultant. Hes to 
multiply uns Sgere by the number given by the consultant, and 
then divide by 12. Note down the remainder. Jupster will be 

Hi. A.—4 


x 


deposited in the boroscope of the consukant in that sign which 
3 obtained by counting from Aries with the remainders. Jupiter 
at the time of consultation will be in a sign. The astrologer has 
to look at the consultant and Guess his age and calculate how 
meny tumes Jupiter would have completed the cycle of the 
zodiac. 

Note how far Jupiter has passed im the sign, from the 
commencement of that sign at the consultation. So much will 
be the sumber of months and days which would have passed 
from the previous birthday of the consultant Thus by noting 
the number of cycles made by the Jupiter and also the propor- 
uonaie movement of Jupiter in the sign at tbe time of 
consultation you calculate the time passed aficr bis birth. Or 
tbe sum 13 to be deducted from the ume of the query. The 
resukt is to be taken as the czact time of the hinh of the 
coasultaat. 


Steka 5: All the above calculations ar: in Solar System. 
t.c., Ube moath. the day. the navzbukha: (ghausl), (1 Ghat -- 
24 rmnotes ~ | Navinkhai) Having obtamed the tinh time 
one can calculate and crect the completa honncom. of the 
cossultant who would bave lost his. 


Sleks 6 The consukant has given a aumbcr, multiply 1 
by 2 and then divide the product by three The question will 
be about a hiving object af the remainder 1s one If the remainder 
% two, it will be about some mineral; if the remainder 1s three 
Of zero, then tbe question would be about a plant. If at the 
tisxse of quesuion the sign Anes is the Lagna i represent iwo- 
legeed tepeds If the lagna falls m Rishaba 1 represents four- 
legged quadrupeds. If the Ascendant be Gemini it denotes 
pregnancy Legal dispute will be the matter # Cancer rises 
Quesvon will be about the Government if Leo x the lagna. 


Steka 7: if the Ascendant falis m Virgo. th: question 
will be about the secret activities with a lady othe: than his own 
wife. if Libra x tbe ascendant the question relates to one's 
businem. {t will be about one’s fear from enemies, if the 
ascendant ss Scorpio Sagittarius, as ascendant indicates the loss 


3S 


of monty. Capricom denotes iny undenrable action of the 
consultant. Aquarrus being the ascendant indicates one’s rank 
position, presuge, howe or dwelling Sages say that one 
should note whether the Rasi or Navamsa is strong. Select the 


stronger of the two. They folluw the above rules to declare the 
result. 


Sleka 8: (In this sloka the author gives the vanous 
matters indicated by each planet.) 


(a) Uf Sun » deposited ether in Rasa or Navamsa in hes 
own sign, at the time of the consultation, then Use mauler reia- 
tes to the king of the country. 


(db) If in bis own Rasi of Nav arma whichever 1s stronger, 
Muon 18 situated, then it indicates lakes, otc. 


(c) Mar in tis own Ravi or Navamaa denotes fre, 
danger, accident or dispute. 


(4) Mercury amilarly placed incrcates buaness of culti- 
\alun. 


(e) Jupiter shows that the quewtion would be abc st the 
vunsukant’s benefactors of high ofhoah of the ruler etc. 


(1) Venus indicates about one’s smooth ren of hfe. 


(g) Saturn portrays that ibe quenes relate to 2 person of 
a property 
Sleka 9 (Streagth of the planct> and the extent of the 
result). Exaked planets give double the effect: plancts in debul- 
lation produce no effect at all; planets in their friend's quarters 
give only 50°, of the result. If a ptanct ts in a oeutral house 
the effect is very moderate. Suppose thete are two planet ip 
exaltation of they are in their own signs, thea select the stronger 
of the two and note to which matter the stronger planet is the 
chief governor: also consider the houve occummed by & 


Sleks 10: (Time of cvent). The matter will be fulfilled 
unmediately if the significator be exalted. If it sm bs own 
‘ign, in a few days, it will be cealsed ff ik is im friend's 
Quarters, it takes a few months. If « 1s nether cxak-.. nor m its 


ows or friendly sign one can realise only after some years: if a 
planet be m conymctoon with or aspected by an evil planct, then 
tbe consultant aill be disappointed: there will be only failure. 
If the lord of the ascendant ss deposited in the house which s to 
be pudged for that query or if the Jord of the ascendant is aspec- 
ted by strong benefics the native will have success, at once. 


Sleka 11: (Direction allotted to cach sign): The zodiac 
ts @ circte of 3460 degrees, and there are 12 signs of 30 degrees 
cach aho. The zodiac » divided into 108 Navamsas, these arc 
all fixed. Kahdas explains how cach sign indicates a particular 
direcuon. This docs not agree with other authors. 


Sleka 12: (Aruda Lagns)) Suppomw a porson with 
flowers aad {ruts approaches an astrologer and is in a place to 
pula query, then one hatto take the sign indicated by the 
direction in which he is standing. That sign n called Arud. 
Lagna af the ume of query An Astrologer should consider the 
owner of the Aruda Lagns and that particular houte which 
wwdicates the mature of the query. He should include, whik 
pudgong the plancis conjoined o1 aspocted hy them Th 
astrologer has to predict such question whether i may th 
Gesrable or not. 


Slekes 13, 14 20d 15: Notc down the gatihas which han 
passed from the ume of sunmee to the time of consultation 
Muluply the number of gatikas by nine. Then divide by 20D 
The quotient indicates the position of Moon at that ime Thr 
Mooe is called Sukshma Moon. But the postion of Moon for 
the moment of consultation according to cphemeris is called 
Sthula Mooo. The Navamsas of both the Sthula and Sukshma 
Moon is to be found out. If the Sthula Moon receives aspect 
from the Sukshmsa Moon. Jupster and Mercury, then th 
consultant wants to know about an animal. Bat if 
Mars, Rahy and Saturn aspect the Sthula Moon, the question 
would be about a mineral tf Sun and Venus aspects th: 
matter will refer to vegetable kingdom. Jupiter, Venw 
and Rahu aspecting the Sthula Moon indbcates many maticrts ; if 
the Sthula Moon occupies Gemuins, Virgo or Libra Navamsa, the 


37 


question is about two-legged bipeds. If the Sthula Moon is in 
a watery sign which indicates multi-legged creatures. If the 
Sthula Moon occupies Sagittarius and Aquarius Navamsa, the 
question is about some of God without legs. If the Sthula 
Moon is in Aries, Taurus or Capricorn the matter indicated is 
about four legged (quadrupeds) one is to know in which portion 
of a rasi a planet is situated. Sign is to be divided into three 
cqual parts and the first part is called youth, the second 
Yauvana and the third Vridha. These are the three conditions 
of a planet situated in a sign. 


Sloka 16: Signs from Aries are movable, fixed and common. 
The movable signs Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn are 
called Garba. The fixed ones are called devara and the common 
ones are called Bahya. Garba and Devara indicate an object 
held in the right hand whereas Bahya shows that in left hand. 


. Sloka 17: Thus one should gucss a thing kept close in the 
hand whether it is short or long, 13 to be judged from the length 
of the rasi. (Signs are classified as short ascension and long 
ascension). The shape. the colour of the material is to be 
judged for the Navamsa sign. The nature of the cloud reveals 
whether the object is beneficial or not. The place is to be judged 
from the sign whether it is on land or sky or water or mountains. 
Also the sign indicates whether it is wicked or uncontrolled for 
tamed or polite. 

Sloka 18: (Time of accumplishment): The consultant 
gives a number within 108 ; divide by 5. The quotient is to be 
added to the number given. Divide the same by 60. In so many 
Ghatikas the matter will be fulfilled. Divide by 30 you get so 
many thithis, Divide the sum by 7 it indicates so many days 
after consultation. Divide by 12 this shows the number of 
months; divide by 60 the remainder indicates the number of 
years This method is to be followed for all questions. 

Sloka 19: If the lord of the house which is to be judged 
for a particdlar question and the lord of the lagna are benefic 
by nature and also occupy good house mutually aspecting each 
other the matter will be fulfilled satisfactonly. . 


38 


SHATPAN CHASIKA 


By 
PRITHUYASAS 
Son af Varahamihirz 


CHAPTER | 


Slaka 9: Prithuyasas prays to the Sum and then for the 
hencfit of Astrologers writes this wark titled Shatpanchasika. 


Slakea 2: The lagna rising at the moment of the query 
indicates changes in one’s position or rank of transfer fram the 
permanent place: the fourth house indicates success in one’s 
attempts or progress. The tenth house shows the stay autside 
ane's residence. 7th house indicates one's retum, if the lagna 
of Navamsa Lagna were to be Seershalaya. But if the lagna is 
occupied by a malefic of if the navamsa lagna is a Prishtodaya 
one cannot be successful in his attempt It the lagna or 
navamsa lagna is connected with bencfics and also miualecfics. 
ane will come out successful after facing difficulties, The plane- 
lary positions at the time of judgment should he studied. One 
will return to his permanent place when any plancf enters into 
the fourth house. 


Slokea 3: if the Jord of a Bhava cither occupics of aspects 
its own Bhava or if a Bhava i occupied hy any benefic, it is 
auspicious in the resulis of that Bhava. Sut if a Bhava is 
Occupied of aspected by any malefic the results of the Bhava wil 
be undesirable. This principle is applicable both ta the birth 
chart and also to the Haorary (Prasna) one. 


Sloka 4: An attempt will be successful if (a) a benefic 
occupies the lagna, (b) the navamsa lagna belongs to a benefic, 
{c) the lagna or navamsa lagna were to be Seershodaya. But if 
the lagna is occupied by a mattfic or if the navamsa lagna is 
owned by an evil planet or if the lagna at navamsa lagna is 
Prishtodaya, ane cannot be successful in his attempt. But if 
both benefics and malefics are connected with the lagna ar 
mavamsa lagnas, one will come out successful after facing diffi- 
culties. 


39 


Sloka 5: Strong Moon occupying the Lagna and also 
receiving aspect from a benefic Jupiter or Venus, promises the 
recovery of the lost property. Such beneficial result can be had 
if a strong benefic is deposited in the 11th house. 


Sloka 6: If a planet is in its own navamsa and aspects 
its own in any of the*Trikona houses, it means that the con- 
sultant wants to know about some minerals. If a planet which 
aspects does not occupy his own, the query will be about 
animals. If the planet which aspects is notin it is own navamsa 
but aspect the navamsa in the Trikona sign, the question will be 
about vegetablic or agriculture. 


Sloka 7: Alternate signs counted from Aries, are called 
masculine oncs. The nine divisions of these odd signs indi- 
cate mineral, vegetable and animal kingdom in cyclic order. But 
in feminine signs, onc is to reverse the order. So note whether 
the ascendant is taasculine or feminine. find out the navamsa in 
which lagna rises and predict the nature of the query. 


CHAPTER [1 


Sloka 1: If Taurus, Leo, Scorpio or Aquarius is the 
ascendant at the time of consultation, one will acquire a place or 
position. This docs not indicate any journey and return to 
home; it does not indicate death or any Joss. [It does not 
show cure or failure (as the above signs are fixed ones). 


Sloka 2: Ifthe ascendant falls in a movable sign, just 
opposite results are to be expected. If the ascendant falls in a 
dual sign, the result will be mixed. If cither the Lagna or the 
Moon receives aspects from benefics, one can predict success m 
one's attempts. If the ascendant receives aspects from evil planets, 
success is not promised. 


Sloka 3: if evil plancts are situated in the Sth or the 6th 
house, the opponent or the enemy will return home (it may be 
einterpreted as follows: The opponent -withdraws the case in 
the court). If the fourth house is occupied by malefic, the oppon- 
ent will be defeated ultimately. 


ou 


Sloka 4: Ifthe fourth house be Cancer or Scorpio or 
Aquarius or Pisces the enemy will be defeated and he will retum 
with his cavalry. 

Sloka §: Success to a person is to be predicted if the 
ascendant is in a movable sign, occupied by a benefic. Failure is 
to be expected if malefic occupies such an ascendant. If the 
ascendant is a fixed one, and evil planets occupy the ascendant, 
the result will be very advantageous. 


Sloka 6: If the ascendant is ina movable sign and the 
Moon is in a fixed one, the arrival of the opponent is doubtful. 
But if Ascendant is in a fixed sign and Moon is in a movable 
one, the opponent will arrive. 


Sloka 7: If the ascendant be in a fixed sign and the Moon 
is in a common one. the opponent will come a long way but 
retrace his own step. 


Sloka 8: [f the Moon be in a movable sign and the 
Ascendant be inacommon onc the opponent comes half the way 
and returns home. If the Ascendant is ina movable sign and the 
Moon is deposited in 4 common one and both are aspected by 
malefics, there will be the fight (or war or litigation) and there 
‘will be loss for both. 

Sloka 9: If the Ascendunt isin a movable sign, and if 
cither Sun or Saturn or Mercury or Venus be in the Ascendant, 
the opponcnt will march on specdily. But if Saturn, Mercury 
or Venus be retrograde the enemy will not leave his permanent 
place. 

Sloka 10: ifthe Ascendant at the time of question be in a 
fixed sign and receives aspects from Jupiter and Saturn the oppo- 
nent will not leave his piace: but he will arrive, if the ascendant 
is in a fixed sign and is aspected by Jupiter and Saturn; and if 
evils are in three, five and six there will be the fight. Evil planets 
in the fourth house indicate that the opponent will retreat. 


Sloka 11: If Sun and Moon are in the fourth house, the. 
opponent will not come. But if Mercury, Jupiter and Venus are 
in the fourth house, the opponent will come quickly. 


4l 


Sleks 12: If Aries, Taurus, Leo of Sagrttarrus happens to 
be the fourth house counted from the Ascendant, the enemy will 
return to his home whether these signs are occupied hy plancts 
oT not. 


Sleka 13: If Jupiter of Saturn were to be in the Ascend- 
ant, in a fixed sign the ‘enemy would have left his place; he 
would have halted on hit way ; if movable sagn ts the Ascendast, 
and Sun or Jupiter were to be in the Ascendant, the enemy will 
surely arnve 


Sloka 14° Find the strongeut planct and note ia which 
heute, it 1s depouted. One can expect the return of a person in 
© many months as is shown hy the number of the house nocu- 
pred by the scrongest planet. 

Sleke 1S: I the strongel planct nm austed in the 
Nevamss, in a movable vgn. the ahove calculation is to be 
made But if the navamis uagn © an immovable onc, the 
duraticn is tu be duubled If ihe Navaman sign is a common 
one, the pcriod will be trebled 


Stoka 16°) The retum of a ponon ss lo be expected when 
the lord of the 7th house begins to retrograde (if Caprcom of 
Aquarius happens to he the ascendant this rule is not appbcable 
at all). 

Sioka 17: Uf theres no planet be'wocn the lagna and 
the wan occupyced by Moon, the opponent will armve wihia so 
many days as is indicated by the number of the sign occupied by 
Moon counted from the Ascendant 


CHAPTER 11] 
Success of Fellure 


Sleka 1: Even when a culec of 3 place is cpposed or 
attached by another, if cither in Ube lagna of in the 7th or m the 
lOth house. benefits are deposited, ope will win and come out 
successful. Jupiter, Venus and Mercury in the 9th house also 
brings victory. But Mars and Saturn in the 9th house threatens 
failure. 


@ 


Sleka 2: The houses 3 to 8 counted from the Ascendant 
indicates the people in the place who are attacked if bencfics are 
deposited in these houses : victory is certain for the people. The 
house. 9, 10, 11, 12 and 1, 2 if occupeed by beneficial planets, 
there will be success. But, if in the 10th. J Ith and J2th bouses 
evil planets are deposited then the people in the place will lose 
whereas thote who attacked will win. 


Stokes 3 & 4: A compromise will be arrived at or u treaty 
will he the result if henefics cocupy | ori) or J2 and these 
houses happen to be two-legged-biped. [f evi] planets vccupy 
commmon signs there will be war to the end. in I or 4 
or 7 of 10 if benefics are deposited and aspected by benefics 
they will come to uw compromise and the war will end ina 
treaty But ff the Kenthra houses are occupeed by the matefics 
and alto aspectod by malcfics war will po on to the hast. 


Sleka $: [fin the second or third house, Jupiter of Venus 
or both are deposited, the enemy will go back very soon. Under 
the same circumslances. anyorc who would have gone abroad. 
will cetyrn back soon without any douvht. 


Cuarrer IV 


Slehs 1: (If evil plancts du not ucoupy |, 4.7, X or 10 
the bencfns are in 1, 4.5, 7, 9 af 10 anc will realbe firs ambi- 
von. If not, the result will be pat opposite. 


Sleka 2: There is success of progress if in the 3rd oF 
Sch of 6th or 11th o¢ 12th benefics are deposited. If the ascen- 
dant fall in Geman, Virgo. or Aquarius aod at the same time 
beneficial planets are alto deposited therem, one is to expect 
Ges:rable results. 


Sleka 3: Improvement in status and achievement of one's 
aims are promaed by beneficial plancts, occupyrre the houses 7 
and 10. If they are in the Ist of 2nd of Sth ene can expeci 
prestige. power and money. Evil planets occupying the 11tb os 
the 12h cannot reduce any advantageous results. Moon in the 
ascendant docs no good. But if :¢ s 10th house, it is beneficaal 


43 


Sleka 4: If Jupiter aspects Moon deposited in 2 of 3 of 
6 or 7 of 10 of 11 one can be happy, make gaims, etc. through 
other sex. But evil planets in 1 of 3 of S$ or 8 or 9 bring lous, 
cause fear aod also failure m one's attempts of business. But 
henefics in these houses are advantageous. 


Sloks S$: Benefinal planets in 1 of $ of 7 of 8 receiving 
aspect from other henefics and moon in Upachayasthana prom- 
wen recovery from discase if the person is ill. 


CHAPTER V 
Person in fer off place. 


Sloke 1: If all planets occupy 2, 3 and 5 the person will 
return home carly. If benefics occupy these houses the perion 
whom :t would have heen thought to be lost, will return and abo 
the missing article will be recovered. If Jupster and Venus 
vecupy the above 2, Jun $ the person will retum sbortly. 


Sloke 2: The person will return home carty if Jupster is 
in a Kendra sign and if planet occupecs the 6th of the 7th house. 
If Venus and Mercury werc to be in $089 the penon sill 
return quichly. 


Sleka 3: Moon in the Sth bows and Kenda gp umoc- 
cupied by evil plancts show that the penon will return safely. 
Abo he will return with gauns if 1a the Keadra sagns benefics are 
found. 


Sleka 4. If the ascendant is a Prahtodsya ugn aad evil 
planets aspect it, the person is undergoing lot of trouble anp 
may be imprisoned. If evil plancts are in the third house and 
they are not aspected by bencficral ones, that perton would have 
started from his place to a foreign land. If in the sixth howe, 
cvil planets are deposited the person will be esther dead of mis- 
sing. He would bave been kidnapped by robbers if the malefics 
, are in the Kendra signs (1. 4, 7 of 10h 


Sleka $: Note the planet whech 1s m direct moton seat 
to the lagna; calculste how many ras away from lagne it is. 


4 


Moltiply # by 12. Ia so many days he will return ; if the planct 
next to lagna is retrograde, then he will return m as many days 
as the number of signs in between the ascendant and the sign 
occupeed by the retrograde planet. 


CHAPTER VI 
Te Regain The Lost 


Slehe 1: A person related to the consultant alonc, would 
have taken the missing article and it 1s there only, if the lagna 
falls mm a fixed sign or the Navamss lagna «tin a fixed sign or if 
the lagna ss Vargothama. 


Sleks 2: The article which 1s considered to be lost, will 
be near the gate of the house, of the first 10° of a sign will be the 
lages But if the lagna a between 10° and WD, the miseod 
article will be in the middle portion of the house. if the lagna 
faile between 20 and 30 , it wll be in the hackyard of the house. 


Neks 3. Strong Moon in lagna of the lagna pb scnho- 
dhava, occupecd 1 atpocted hy beneficial plancts. indicates that 
one will recover the property, considered to be low. If the filth 
houst 18 occumed by a strong henefic. the property will he 
reco. ered. 


Sleha 4 Plancts sstuated inthe houses 1, 4. 7 of 10 
sndicate where the property that had been missed, would be. 
It indacates the directon by which itis taken. If there is no 
planct in the Kendra house, then the lagna indicates the direc- 
pon The distance by which the missing articte 1s taken is to be 
ascertained by considering the Navamsa lagna. The rature of 
the property host 1s yudgc3 through the navamsa lagna: 


(a) the rising decanate describes the robbers. 


(0) the ascendan indicates the mc, when it was lost 
and also the direcuon by which and the place to 
which the missing arvcle is taken. The age, caste, . 
and other paruculars of the robber is judged from- 
the lord of the ascendant. 


48 


Cuarter VII 


Sloka 1: Predict that a male child will be born if Saturn 
1s deposited in the houses 3, 5, 7,9 of 11. If not, a girl will be 
born. As regards marriage, if Saturn is ia even houses, one will 
be successful, otherwise, no 


Sloka 2: If Moon is in 3 or $ or il receiving 
aspect from Jupiter and Mercury, ma teake place. If 
benefics occupy Trikona of Kendra houses, tnea alto marmage 
will come up. 


Sleka 3: If Venus is 7 to Muon and Sarna is in 7 to Sun 
or if Venus and Saturn are in 4th and 8th houses, there will be 
the rain during the rainy season. 


Sloka 4 = If benefics are found on the houses 1, 2, 3, 4, 7 
or 10 and such a houte 1s a watery one, there will be rain. If 
Moon 15 1n the ascendant im a watery sign predict that there eill 
he the rain 


Sloha S$. Amak child will be born df the lagna be ina 
muculine sign and ako aspected by male plancts. {f the ascen- 
dant be a femah: sign. revessing aspect from femimne planets, 
the child will be female. If “Mercury is ctuated m the ascon- 
dant, the lady will be pregnant. 


Sleoka 6: One would like lo know sboula girl ff Mooo 
ot Mercury either ovcupecs of aspects the lagna. If Saturn 
Occupres of aspects the lagna. the query will be about an old 
woman. If Jupiter or Sun 1s situated in the ascendant or if they 
aspect the ascendant, the lady in questica would have receutly 
dehvered. The lady will be maintaining strong health if Mars 
or Venus occupies of aspects the ascendant. The above prina- 
ple is ao applicable for males. 


Sloka 7: Sirong planet in the tagna indicatcs that the 
consultant would lhe to know about one with whom he is 
‘closely connected if the strong planet is in the third house, 
"the matter will be about one’s youngster. If it acm pies the Seh. 


& 


it reiaics to one’s offspring. If the mrong planctis in 4, the 
matter relates to the mother or sister. If it is in 6 the query is 
about the enemy. 


Sieka 8: If nis in 7, abou one's wife, if in 9, it will 
be about a virtuous person doing meritorious deed. If it is in 
10 st regates to one’s Guru. If the Lord: of the Navamsa lagna 
is strong in the Horary lagna one will put questions about him- 
se. If the Lord of the Navamsa lagna 1s strong and 1s a friend 
to the Lord of the Horary Lagna, the quesuon will be about 
one’s fnend. If they are enemical, the question will be about 
one’s enemy. 


Sleha 9: If the lagna fal in a movable‘sgn and alvo 
the navamsa lagna, the question will be about one who has left 
bes place and gone overscas. If a planct has muved away from 
the 7th house and it ms not retrograde, he, who has gonc 
out, will return. But if the planet is retrograde he will not 
return. 


Sleks 10: Onc will cnjoy another man's wife if Sun. 
Venus or Mars » wtuated mm the 7th house One will enjoy hin 
own wife if the 7th howe is ocoupied by Jupiter. Ono enjoy 
& prosutute if Moon or Mercury 1s m9. One enjoys a woman 
of a very low caste if Satumisin 7. From the nature of the 
Moon, ascertain the age of the woman. 


Sleka 11. He who has gone out will fall ill 10 8 foreign 
land if tn the 9th ~house Saturn and some other evil planet are 
depowted He who has gone out will not return, bit will dic 
there itself, sf Saturn is an 8. 


Slekhs 12: One's father who had already left hs place 
will further move on to snother country if Sun or a benefice or 
both are in the 8th house, receiving aspect from another 


Thus Prithuyasas has given various principles im his book, | 
** Shatpanchasika “. 


47 
SINENORAMALA 


One should approach an astrologer with such a devouon 
and affection similar to a devotee of God and the pet child of 
a mother. Unless one is sincere, even Veda is not weful to 
him. Whenever one approeches a manthravadi, of doctor of 
an astrologer, one should never go empty handed. 


Sears: Sun, Mars, Mercury and Jupiter give marks oa the 
right side, whereas Moon, Verum, Setum and Nodes cause 
moles and marks ca the left side. 


Cancer and Scormo indicate reptike : Capricora and Pros 
show birds. Other sigm denote two-legged of four-legged crea- 
on of God. Moon and Nodes indicate the reptiles and also 
those why do not haw legs: Mercury indicates birds; others 
denote human heings and animals Saturn mdicates Lame or frac- 
tured of amputated leg. 


Ares and Sagittarius UJenotc forest: Taurw— agricekural 
land: Gemini and Virgo— village ; Cancer -canal ; Lro--Hill 
und Mountain: Libew and Capricom -river; Scomio— well; 
Aquatiua— water. 


Anes- forest; Tausus-- agrnultural lad ; Gemuai-- village ; 
Cancer-canal; Leo--bill; Virgo—water; Lidbra—village; 
Scorpio--well, Sagittarius—garden: Canricom--dry canal; 
Aquarius—lake ; and Pnors Occan 


Sun. Mars and Saturn forest : Moon, Venus—water : Mer- 
cury, Jupiter—-village: Nodes-- bush ; Sun and Jupiter—poosn 
room : Moon and Venus— water. Mars—ecarth , Mercury—rest- 
ing place ; Saturn- -the area where religsows functions are done, 
or kitchen ; Nodes the hole m the tree. o¢ anywhere there is the 
hote. 


Saturn and Nodes indscale one year; Sun denotes wi 
months: Mercury two months; Jupiter one moath: Venus 
15 days: Mars one day and Moon If--hours. This is to find 
Out the time needed to materialise. 


Ptesteties: Sun—trees; Mars—prodace from dey lead : 
Mercury and Venus—produce from wet lend: Jupiter and 
Veaus—eugarcane and same species ; Saturn and Nodes—thorny 
Cree 


Leo and Sagntarius—trecs . Taurus, Cancer and Libra—cree- 
pers; Anes and Scorpio—produce from dry land; Pces— 
sugarcane ; Gemini apd Virgo—plants dithout thorn, Capnoom 
and Aquarius-- thorny trees 


Sun- ~trees in the foreai; Moon—planting ces: Jupiter— 
Coconut trees; Saturn and Nodes- -paim trees: Mercury and 
Venas- domestic garden; Mars —plants cic.. Saturn indocates 
gingtt . Safron and such bulbs whoch grow under the ground. 


Sun indicates berks; Moon- -bulbs; Man-—flowers: Mercury 
bes! . Jupeter aad Venuc- -frun ; Setura—root: and Nodes—cree- 
pars 

Sun, Moon and Saturn indicate dry irca: and other show 
{runt-bearmg ones. The colour of the fruit will be similar to th 
planet. Sun indicates beans (wheat): Moon- whit: scsamc. 
Mars. dhall: Mercury green dhall; Jupiter -Bengalgram : 
Venus. -al] whate one and Satura- scrame, Nodes black dhall. 
horscgram, etc 

Sun tadicates ger, Moon—ulking animal: Mars—goat ; 
Mercury—rabit: Jumiter—horie: Venus—cow;: Saturn and 
Nodes—duffalocs. 


If Sum and Jupaer signify the animal, then it will be preg- 
nast. Moos and Venus indicate that they will give plenty of 
milk. Setura and Nodes indicate that they have no calves. 
No more :ssuc. Mars :mdbcates that they are dry and ako 
cunning. 

Thus Hocary ‘Astrology hm been described in this bool 
and variow other rules which are found ia Sinendhramals arc 
simular to those already furnished in this book. Those which arc 
not found in the other text-hooks had heen pubnshed for the 
henefit of the readers. 


HORARY ASTROLOGY 


&e 
Shri PADMAPRAPUSURI 


He prays to Lord Ganesh and describes the fundamentals 


like the names of 12 signs; planets ; the exaltation, debdilation ; 
cfe. 


According to him, morning is indicated by Jupster and Mer- 
cury Evening 1s indicated by Moon and Venus The day, by 


Sun and Mars whereas Rahu and Saturn denote the time of 
tet. 


Jupiter and Vem denote two-legged ome, Sun asd Mars 
represent four-legged one. Satum and Mercury denote birds; 
Moon and Rahv. the repules, Moon indicates large ones 
Venus flat one. Sut. and Mars square: Mereviy and hupster 


round, Rahu and Saturn tall (Hindu authom give different 
versions } 


Mars iwicates red celour; Mercury greea ; Jupiter gokden ; 
Moon handsome, Sun brilliant red. Veam white: Sean 
and Rahu. bleck. 


Mercury smbcate ch:kd. Man young map. Moca and 
Venus adults: Sun, Jupier, Saturn and Rahu indicates aged 
people 


Then, he describes what th. twelve bewses indicate. 


He also gives the method, by which one hasto measure 
out the shadow and calculate the time of query. Ths 8 not 
at all applicable to different lautudes, smce mn many latitudes, 
shadow is so long. that nt cannot be measured at all. And this 
method may be iried by people living close to the Equator 
Appbhcavon of this cube cs Inmited «= Only dey time is to be pre- 
ferred. -Cloudy days are out of question. Whea time-prece is 
available, there ts no use for this method. Theo, be gives the 
gacthod by which one 1s to fied owt whether the lagna ss strong. 
and also the bhava to be pudged, 13 stroog. itis general, and 
it can never come and it will mostly fai. Then, be deals with 

8. A—3 


2 


eclipses planet. He cieime that when lord of lagna aspects the 
lagna which 8 to be judged. then the promotion of the bhava 
of the success 3 to be predicted. This B also not correct. He 
gives bis opinion that if lord of lagna or lord of 11 is situated 
in the !ith house, one wil) gain. Stellar Astrology disproves 
this rule. Agar, his opinion about the houses 6, 8 aad 12 is 
not correct 


In Stanza 87, he discusses whethes one will have safe deb- 
very o¢ not. He says that if lord of 5 is deposited or is 
aepecting the Sth, thea the delivery 1s not casy: if an evil planet 
tam S$, of aspects S$, one wto predict mescarrnage But, 19 
pracuce, x was found that lord 5 m 5, deposited ia the constel- 
tation of lord of 8 in 8, has caused cessarian operauon. Cons 
tellation theory alone, will prove to be sucocesful. He says that 
tem berth 1 to be predicted, ff 8 plancts arc deponted in 
4 bouscs, 2 in cach. Such a combination wil) be very rare. 
(So, research caanot be successfully door ia one’s ifeuume.) He 
says that the age of tbe intra-uterine life of the Foetus is, as 
many sumbcr of months m the number of houses, where Venus 
s situated from the lagna Thus, he gocs on dealing in his 
book. 


My opmmon ws that the whole thing ss general and fs nat at 
all helpful to exactly pun-point the mature of the cvent snd the 
time of the event. 


As regards disease, he says Vayu; Priha: sleshma like that. 
All ow of date—Anybow. I have to say that « is not useful 
for modern umes. 


SECTION if] 


HORARY ASTROLOGY 
WESTERN SYSTEM 


WESTERN SYSTEM 


Many authors have publnhed many books on Horary 
Astrology. it has been widely practised by great scicntats aad 
very learned scholam. The westem system n explained most 
scienufically and thir arguments con\iace the readen. 


lt has ulreacy been said im tie book chat in the western 
system, the commencement of the zodiac, differs from that of 
the Hindu system; thereby the signs get changed . most of the 
plancts are conssdered to occupy diffcrent signs: 30, the lords 
of the signs and the qualities as well as charactenstics attributed 
to the’signs pct changed The west<rners erect the horoscopes 
according to Seyana system whereas we erect according to Nire- 
yana. They do not include the Nodes, while offenng prediction, 
whereas they take Uranus, Neptunc and P,uto for pdgment. 


The following extract is taken from the book “ Horary 
Astrology’ by Dr. W. J. SIMONITE «DD. PHD. with addi- 
tons by John Story and edited by ERNEST A. GRANT. 


1. “The time of erecting a herary Agure” 

a. Many disputes have amsen about the proper time for 
the figure of a horary question to oe erected. Some think the 
Moment when tbe querent is first seen by the artist ; others when 
he salutes bim, others when he mquires of hem, et. But the 
Proper time is the hour and the misutc when the querent feels 
the most anxious about the matter. 


32 


b. Hf a person apply to the Astrologer the figure must be 
erected for the minute the querent proposes the question. 

c. If a better be sent to an artist the ume of the letter 
bemng rece:ved ss not taken notice of, but the moment the artists 
reads the very questions. 

¢. In sackness the Ume must be taken when the person 
firs spoke to the physician concerning the disease, whether the 
querent is the affacted party of not. 

ce. If a parent bring the water of a child, though the child 
caanot speak, the Ist howse represents the child. and not the 
Seh, and 20 of the rest. 


( Uf st be not 2 quauun but 2 sudden crn, takc the 
mosnem of its commencement, as the sting off on u journey. 
beginning a letter, of any bumness, etc. of when you first disco. 
ver the joss uf an article. In all these cas the fir unpreasion 
08 your qund is the time and moment for the figure 


2. The following extract 1s taken from the book ** Modern 
Text-bookh of Asrology” by MARGARET PF. HONE. 
(page 272) 


If the quesucn comcs to an astrologer's mund, he cau the 
chart for the moment of hes thought. using the latitude and lon- 
gitude of the place where be =I & person comes to an astro- 
loger aod puts bs request. the ume of the roquest 1s taken. 


Diversay of opimon eusts a» to the procedure to follow 
when there is delay through the post. Some astrologers say that 
the tase of opening the letters should be taken, otbers stating 
thet the querent should give the ume when the kles came to 
berth is bes own mind § This scems the morc reasonable way. 

The chart having been casi, the ruler of the siga on tbe 
fir cusp is reckoned to represent the querent, and the ruler of 
the sign om the cusp of the house connected wiih the affairs of 
the question is taken as its significator. Judgment depends 
mainly oo the aspect formed between these two, but many minor 
rules to be followed have bearing on this 


$$ 


top and corner room ; as the ruler of the Ascendanr 1 mm good 
aspect to Uranus, ruler of the second (the valuable in question.) 
you can recover it by adopung unusual methods *. The lady re- 
cogmized one of the maids from this description who had a 
comei, attic room, was middle-aged and quite eccentric. Lnstead 
of accusing her of theft the lady said, “I left my watch on the 
table; I presume you’ put it away for safe keepmg?” The 
woman was speechless for a moment then said, ** Yes, madam, | 
took it upstairs and put « on the top shelf of my closet where 50 
one could see it”. This inedeat proves the practical value of 
astrological knowledge 


Mer. Zadklel tay. in the book, “Aa Introduchoa to 
Astrology" Wilham Lilly and ~ A grammar of Astrology” by 
Zadkiel. Thus: 


** This is the age of enquiry and yet prepsdice continues to 
press down her leaden foot upun the neck of examunauon in the 
matte.. 1 can only altruute the prtable fact to the crcumstance 
of there being no recent publications on tboee parts of Astrology 
which are the most easily acquired The art of nativitees requires 
many years of patient expenmeating before it can be well under- 
stood and practised with certainty aad satsfaction. The art of 
atmospherical astrology and also that of Mundane Astrology 
alke demand much time to penetrate ther arcana and a good 
education to follow their practice. We may sccount for their 
comparatively confined study: few have eitber the abilries or the 
opportunity to wrestle with their difficulties. 


But Horary Astrology. may be speedily learnt by any person 
vf even moderate abthnes ; and may be mastered in a few day's 
Study. It may be * ell understood and reduced to constant prac- 
Uce in lees than a quarter of an year, and no one will be at a loss 
for oocaszons to test its reakty or its utlity ; for his own avocs- 
tions, and the affairs of his friends will offer these almost 
daily... . ..He may thus in 5 minutes carn mfalhbly whether the 
affair will succeed of not". 


% 
WHAT EACH PLANET SIGNIPIES 


Neptase can produce idea] people with religious beat of 
mind and psychic powers. Jt can ako produce lethargic, lazy, 
bie, and immoral! people who wil! cheat others and be 


It mdscates pocts, anacthcssts, chenlists, detectives, biquids, 
odds, aad those who work m oil fick, gas, fish, sca, hospitals. 
jails, caves, submarine, ctc. 


Ureses indicates imeiiigent ar cocentric people, fortune. 
violence, sudden changes, invention, novelty, harmony or 
divorce, astrologers, teachers, lecturers, sculptors, those who 
bypnouse, measmense, those who work in railways, benks, gas 
plaots, asvium. dispentanes, research laboratories, aerodrome 
eon. 


Setere imagnatre. caytiuw asction, alence, fexcrved 
geture, patience, preserving. studious, sincere, faithful; or 
envious, jealousy, untruthful, lary, har. discontentment. dn- 
bonest; also those who work in woods, uafroguenied places. 
o86 churches. delabrtated buildings. com pool. drains, sewerage 


Jopiter produces magnanimous. nobice, bonourable. truc, 
rehable people, with amtiuon and hopeful dispostuon Their 
dealings will ever be fair and thers mind mil be to help others. 
They are religious and god-fearmg. They try to stuck on to 
tredtion They lead a very happy family hfe with their 
ciuldren . they are charitable and sympathetic. Jupiter indicates 
judges. advocates, professors. proests. minnters, administrators, 
chancellors, avibans, bankers, revenue depts. cic; also those 
who work in palace, grrdens, law courts, etc., those who deal in 
honey, onl, silk, clothing. horse, domestic fowis etc. 


Mars. Brave, violeat. unyrelding, taking chanocs, pleasure 
im fighting, over liberal, extravagant. It shows ceptains, soldiers. 
surgeons, chemusts, barbers, butchers, thocves, smiths, tailors,’ 
carpenters, masons, etc. It also denotes those who work in fire. 
farnaces, oveas, or deal m blood, and 10 on. 


5) 


See: produces liberal, noble. and sympathetic people, 
reliable. proud and generous. They are fond of dress, jowels, 
internal decorations, and also outmde; thase who work i= the 
Government im any cepectty. magistrates, cewards, goldemsthe. 
copper-cmiths, mint. munocipabties. corporation. etc. 

Veeus: Calm, level headed, cvermmling, pleasing, never 
imtating, sweet, cheerful. dance. music, sulk, limen, paint jewel, 
embrondery women, perfumery, cagraving, bed. dence, benquet- 
ing hall. 

Mercury: ineelligent, bopcan, studious, industnous, 
research minded, witty, learning without 3n insinuctor, travellers, 
good khoow ledge i occult scacnces, astrologers, mathemavcians, 
travellmg agents, poet. advocates, dress, pnaters, pubdi:chers, 
orators, ambaviadon. clerks, ncseengers, shook, asscmbbes, 
hdrasies. 


- Meena Ever changng hat. umteady. thmks of thr 
present alonc. timed, trict to lead 3 peaceful life. tries to avoid 
anuecty. worry, etc. traveiles, Osh. brewetses ruth. acs 


sengers, marine, navy. those whe deal m bquds (They do sot 
take Rahu or Kethu ) 


SIGNS AND PLACES 

Aries: Sandy of pasture ground, squall hell, tbere where 
thieves stay, stables. 

Teeres. Cow-shed cattleched, furniture. pasture ground 
away from the house. agricultural land 

Gernieai Boxes, trunks, hills, movntams, playing grounds, 
schools, nurseries, hbrarses. 

Cancer: Rivers, lakes. sea. spnag. marshy atca. 

Lee: Forest, desert, rock. fort. castles, palaces. furnaces, 
uvens, kitchens. 

Virge: Libraries, bookshelves, hnnks. closets, corms 


Libra. Out-hows. bedroom, mocd-chambea. wind-mill, 
top of the mountain. side of the hill, well venulated place 


Scerple: Drains, cosspools, ruins, marshy ares, wesbbasin, 
layadry and places where rubdieh is thrown. 

Sagiteartas: Stabdie, hill, high land, pooje-room, temple. 
cash-boxz, moncy-purse. 

Capricera: Cow-shed, lumber-room, store-room, thomy 
pleces, low lying erce. 

Aquortas: Mines, metal, qua.» conduits, tunnels, 
lecture room, or research laboratories. 

Pieces: Wells. rivers, ponds, fish, weier-mill. pumps, 
cesterns 
SIGNS: COUNTRIES AND CITIES 


Artes: Bertain. Galatia. Germany. Lithuanis. Lower 
Poland, Palcatine, Denmark. Syna, Judia (Lehenon). Burgandy. 
Dasnascw.. 

Verona, Naples, Floreoce. Capua. Morsellies. Burmwick, 
Pedur. Saragoma. | cicester, Cracow. Uuecht. Madras 


Taeres Persea. Modes, Morendaram. Azctujao, Caucusus, 
Georgia, Cyprus, Asia Minor. Poland. the Arctupelago, Holland. 
Whieo Russia and Ireland. 

Rhodes, Mantua. Dublin, Derma, Leipzmg, Prancosia. 
Palsmo, Bhadra. Marwar, Gbosha, the Yamuna, Matsbya, 
Matbura, Surasens, Panchala, Ayodhya. Kuru. Parryatra Moun- 
tain, Kapshale and Hastinapure 


Gemieli. The West of England, the United States of 
America, Africa (north-east of Tripoli). Lower Egypt. Slanders. 
Lambardy, Belgium, Wales. Canada, Armenia, Lower Egypt. 
Flanders, Sardinia, Brabant. 

Loadon, Versailles, Nuremburg, Plymouth, Melborne, 
Sas Francisco, Mentz. Loramie. Bruges. Cordove and Nurer- 
burg. 

Caecer: Holland, Scotland. New Zealand, North and West 
Afnca, Mauritus, Anatolia near Constantinobic, Paragpmy. 
Stockholm and Modenburg. 


St. Andrews, Deptford, Manchester, Rochdale, York, New 
York, Algers, Amsterdam, Berne, Cadiz, Constantinodie. 


Genoe, Lubeck, Magdeburg, Milan, Tunis, Venice. Venceana 
and Medenburg. 


Lee: France, Pugs, Italy: Sialy, Boberma, the Alps, 
Chaldea, the coast of Sxjon and Tyre, Capadooe. Apulis, Lan- 
cashire, California, the Worth of Rumania. Rome, Bnstol, Bath, 
Praguc, Taunton, Dammend, Ravcans, Dahon-le-Moors 
Portsmouth, Philedelphis (Checago). 


East of Narmande, Orissa, Bengal, Ganjam dastrnct, Kame- 
1up io Assam, Puhinda Hill, Eastern half of Deccan, Eastern 
bank of Jumne, the Bindha Hill, Golangul, Burdwan, Sree 
mountains, the Mikal bill, South Bihar, Kirata, Vitaka, Champs 
Udumbara, Chedi, nver shshmatee. Vangs, Kabnga, ctc- 


Virge: Turkey, Croatia, Mesopotamia, Bobyloa, Assayna, 
tbe locality between the Tibct and the Eurphates, Greece, Livadia, 
Thessaly, Corinth, Morea. Conds, Senreriand, Lower Silene, 
Braz, Virginia and West Indies. 


Jerusalem. Navaire, Pars, Bran), Padus, Lyces, Tolleo 
wee, Reading, Bagded. Chettenham- Maidstonte. Norwich, 
Tudmordsn, Boston, Brinda, Connth and Los Angels 


Libea: Nomrihern Provinoes of India. Burma, Indo-China, 


Chine, Argentina, Republic parts of Tibet, Upper Egypt, Libya, 
Urback, Sevoy, Austins. Bactrianne and Livonia 


Antwerp, Nottingam Leeds, Frankfort, Lubos, Voeans 


Charles Town, Petrograd, Copenhagen. Spuncs. Playeaye 
Fribousg, Suesse. Johannesburg and Geeta. 


Scerple: Sweden. Branl. Morocco. Tiaasval, Norway, 
Syna, Bhvana. Algeiss, Barbey, Syris, Catalonia, Jndes, Fez, 
Jutland. Cappadocia, Queensland 


Liverpool, Delhi. Frankfurt. Barumore, Stockport, 
Waslfigton, New Castle, Messina. Dover, Oregon, Ghent, 
Glossop, Halifax, Hull, Valent. Portiand. 


Segittartes: Australia, Arabia, Felix, part of France, 
Madagascar, Hungary, Sclarone. Tuscany, Spein, Istria, Dal 
maha, Italy. 

Naples, Narbonac. Stutland, Avignon, Sheffield, Rottca- 
berg. Cologne, Buda Bradford. Wen Bromwich. Torouts- 
Toledo, Poriland, Notnagham. 


Capeicersn: India, Punjab, Circram Macedonia, Macian 
lilyra, Thrace, Bosnsa, Morea, Bulgaria, Romandola, Aibde- 
am, Suun, Syria, parts of Perna. Afganistan, Mocklenburp. 
Hesse, Memco. Orkacy slands. 


Keighley, Salbury, Broceels. Oxford, Bradenburg, Prato 
Fayence, Tortano, Mayence, 

Aqeartes Arabia, Abyssinia. Prise, Rod Ruswa, Cir- 
caewa, Lithuvams, Poland. Tartary, Swedan, West Phalis. 
Urebech. Wallachia. Piedmont. Acania. maeinty Russia. 
Salisbury 

Pisces: South of Asw Minui. Calpna, Portugal, Nor: 
mandy, Fesren, Egypt, Gallacsa in Spam, Zara deaert— Nuhia 
Ceyloa. 

Bournemouth, Grimsby, Christchurch, Famham, King's 
lyan, Lancester. Alezandiia Preston, Southport. Compostella. 
Regensbury. Ratibon. Seville, Chicago 


HOW WESTERNERS JUDGE A HORARY CHART 


Westerners do not ask for a number, but they erect a horos- 
cope for the moment of judgment and they read out result 
according to the aspects which are beng formed (applying) and 
also the aspects which are scperating 

Aspects: They do not include minor aspects as they 
consider that they are not of any significance. But they take for 
yodgment only the following aspects. These aspects may be 
exher betecen a planct and a cusp of a house, o1 mutual aspects 
between two planets. The aspects wich arc included are: thr 
conjunctios ; the sem-sextile ; semm-square . sextile ; square ; trinc . 
sesquiquadrate and Opposition. When two planets beve thc 


61 


same geocentric latitude, it is said to be im consuaction. This 
1s considered to be good if beneficial planets conjoin. But if 
malefic planets conjom together. it is comndered to be evil 
semi-sextile aspect is moderaic in strength and xt 1s advante 
geous. The longitudinal distance wil be 36° The Senai- 
sgware aspect iscver evil whether itis among the benefics of 
among the malcfics, It's of 45°. The sexis/e aspect at 60° is 
considered to be more favourable than sem-seatile. But much 
less than the trine. The sextibe is of 60°. The square aspect of 
yO* is very bad, and very evil. The aspect may be among two 
benefics or among two malefics. Whatever 11 16, thes aspect 
very detrimental The trine aspect of 120° = very strong in 
offering most desirable results. Whether the aspect is amoes the 
henefics of among the malefics, or betucen benefic and maicfic, 
the sesqustquarale aspect » of 135 andit san untucky one The 
vppontion of 180° is considered to be malefic f either of the 
twd planets happens to be a maleic. But of both of them 
happen to be benefics then, even though anect called oppoe- 
won, yet the results will be agreeabic 


Orbs: In a horoscope (whether matal of horary) ine 
planets will not be alpays in the exact number of degrees as 30, 
$$, 60 and so on.~11 18 to be remembered that cvery planet hes 
got an :aflyence round its body Uranus has 7, Saturn %, 
Jupiter 9°, Sun 15°, Mars 7°, Venus 7°, Mercury 7 and Mooa 15°. 

If one wants Ww hnow whether the plancts are formmg an 
aspect, taking into consideration the orbs, then one has to add 
Ube orbs of both the planets and divide by 2 So take half of 
the wm = If the aspect which i to be formed is within the 
acteal distance plus half of the sum (balf the orts of the two 
planets) then they are saxd to be forming the aspect. The 
results also should be given as though they are having the aspect 
(applymg aspect). 


Description ef the persen 


Please refer to Krishnamurti Padhdhat' where the physical 
features and characteristics of the person are given very clabo- 


rately im the Ist volume. Also the readers are advised to go 
through the book aad note down what esch planct sigmfiecs and 
also cach house 


Whee the 12 Heusa: Signifies 

I Heese: Health. one’s mind. phyzcal feature of the 
consultant; the condition of the ship in the sea; Ailment of 
enermes ; jouracys of childrea ; frends of brothen 

il Heese: Mooney that had been lent; one's wealth; 
Prosperity o¢ otherwise, loss or profit; moncy used m speculs- 
tion; death of wife and public encmics. 

Mit Heese: Brother's. saghbours, short journcy; letters. 

1V Hees: Father. Howe, Estate, Treasure. 

V Hease. Children. ther heakh, speculation. racing. 


games, music snd dance. 
Vi Heese. Discase. dot. difficult. pe animals, cattle. 
seeaea 


Vil Heese: Marriage. laweun. pariner. whether the lost 
property can be recovered. 

VIU Heese Death. Will, legacy, money of the partner, 
dowry. 

1X Heese Safety, Voyage, Church, Religion, Scsence. 

X Heese: King. Magzstrates, busines, profession, repu- 
tanon. 

Xi Heese: Friends, bopes, advisors, reahestion of ambi- 
ties 

Xii Heese: Trial and tribulations, depremon. fraud 
imprisonment, secret encmics, deception and loss. 

When will the event happen ! 

They confess that 1 is very difficuk to juJgs, accurately 
They terut the time by taking eather the house or the sign or by 
aspect. To find out the number of days, weeks, months and 
years, they consider the actus! distance between the planet and 


63 


the cusp of the house of amoog two planeh and depending upon 
the number of degrees m between their aspect, they predict the 
days, weeks, the mooths and years. Also, they include m their 
prediction, in which house the planets are deposited. If the 
houses are succedent ones, the result will be 19 so many moaths 
Of years according to the sign, being movable, commoa or fixed. 
But cadent bouses give in months m movable signs; years m 
commoa ones and far beyond in fixed sign. South lautude 
increases the duration, whereas nocth latitude reduces. 


They also take the transit mto consideration aad from the 
transiting position, they offer the predscuon how a matter will 
progress. 


Distaece: To find out the distance, they select the planet 
which significs the matter. If :t is without lautude, the distance 
wssbort But if itis in North Lautude, « will be mn furlongs 
whereas if 1t 18 in South Latitude, st will be in mules. They calcu- 
late the number of miles taking the number of degrees and 
minuics between the planet and the sigmficator and accordseng to 
the distance in degrecs and minutes. they mention the seme 
number of mules. 


Aries, Cancer, Libra and Capricorn sBow two mules for 
cvery degree. Taurus. Leo. Scorpio and Aquarme for every 
degree indicates two furfongs, whereas Gemini. Virgo, Sagine- 
mus and Pisces denote four furlongs for every degree. Therefore, 
from the number of degrees and minutes. we have to multply 
and give out the answer. Their principle of sudgment one 
only on the aspects and the longitudinal distance. 


Honestly speaking, however, much one may master ther 
system, ope cannot give such a clear and precise answer as one 
who follows Krishnamurti Padhdhati. The most scientific way 
of approach to ths subject is Krishnamurt Padhdhati and 
Krehnamurt: Padhdbati alonc. 

A few examples of the method followed by the westerners 
fill be given, when certain quenes are suswered using Krishna- 
mart: Padhdhat). 


SECTION IV 


HORARY ASTROLOGY 
KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI 


ADVANCED STELLAR ASTROLOGY 


HINDUS — UNSCIENTIFIC ~ KRISHNAMUARTI 
PADHDHATI- SCIENTIFIC” 


Horary Astrolugy folluwed by the Hinde» nm oot socntific. 
There are two methods . 


(1) Ask for a umber wehin 108 and divide by 12; uke 
the scmarder and counting from Arm depending on the remin. 
des, we fx a sgn aslagna We take the whole sign a lagna 
bheavs, the next agn i .ecosd bhava and 90 on. Hence the 
loagitude of each bhava will be O°. Only when the sumber 
gveo happens to be 6 of 18 of 30 or 42 of $4 oF 66 oF 78 of DW 
or 102, asceadaat Virgo will ree for lautudes 14° to 18° N, the 
loogrtude of each house will be more or less the same, cach 
berng 30°. Otherwne, the longtude of each howe must be 
different. 


(2) We ask for number withea 108 and dinde 1 by 9; 
count from Anes. as many signs as the quovent ss. then the 
remainder :odscates ibe Navamas in the next sign. So tbe oum- 
ber gvea by the consultant gives the navamsa, the loagittude of 
whech 3° 20. The houm division 18 not suggested by the author 
m Uthrakalamndhs So, one is to take, naturally, 30°, 30° from 
that Navamse of 15° behend and 15° in advance socording to the 
Hiadu system of bouse divason The author has pot advocated 
a6 to whch metbod to be followed But df we follow cusp to 
cusp, post like Westerners, thea also we have to take 30°, as the 
longtade of each house. The longitude of cach house will be 


6S 


30° only when the number given is 47, and that also, will be 
pearing correctness only for 200 years to come as from Is 
January, 1970, Ayanamsa is 23° 20' ; one may refer to Raphee!'s 
Tables of Houses. Then one can find that, for latitudes 14° to 
18° N when Libra 0° rises in the East, the other cusps are all in 
O° in the next, next sign (The sidercal tone will be 6 hrs. 
O mts. 0 secs.) Therefore only for the latitudes 14° to 18° N, 
when according to Sayana 0° Libra rises in the East, the houses 
will be of 30°. Otherwnte, the longrtude of each must vary 


But in Krishnamurti Padhdhaty, the sumber indicates the 
ftagn, the star and the sub. And the sub commences at a parti- 
cular possuon This is taken as the ascendant and accordmg to 
the latitude of the locality, where the horoscope is judged taking 
INtO account the Ayanamsa on the day of judgment. the cusps of 
the other houses are calculated Therefore. Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati 3 alone scientific, whereas the Hindu system is, in 
fact. unscientific 


Pegarding Westerness they take the tume of judgment; they 
crest the horoscope, for that tame takmg mto account, the bet 
tude of the place of »udgment So, 1 15 wry scasgtific. 


Muemaer preferred 

But the defect in thal system 1s thal certain quesboes can 
never be answered using the horoscope erected for a partiular 
moment of judgmem Suppose two people come and ask, 
within an interval of a few minutes. The boroscope. the aspects 
between the planets and the cusps of the houses. the mutual 
aspecis among the planets themselves, will remain more of les 
the same, and therefore one has to predict the same resukt for 
hoth of them. (Time of event and the nature of the result). 
Supposing A and B stand for elecuon i the same locabty and 
both of them visit the house of an astrologer at an interval of 
$ mimutes, the astrologer has to necessarily offer the same 
prediction to both of therm. 


But if the astrologer were to ask for a number aad accord- 
ingly be erects the horoscope, 
H.A—4+ ‘ 


Certainly (a) tbe posmnon of the ascendant and the other cusps 
of the houses will vary, even though the plancts 
tay be io the same sign, same star, and same sub ; 

(6) the houses cocupmed by the plances will vary ; 
(c) the signdicators will vary and hence one can 
correctly predict the diametrically opposite results. 
Therefore, Krishnamurti Padhdhati—Horary Astrology— 

8 most scicnufic and most useful for any questnon. and th» 

gives precisely the correct answer and also the accurate date of 

treiti 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati Replaces Traditions! Astrology 


Astrology a divine science. It has been pracused by 
many astrologers, who followed esther the traditional Hindu 
System of the Western System. Honestly both of them find it 
difficuk to pinpoint the nature of the event and the time of 
event. The letter 1s more umportant to the consultants 


Time of event mrast be found out to the mmmute Such a 
method alonc is ueeful. With all hunibsty, let me say that Lord 
Ganesh has given through me a particular technic to decide the 
eveot. Jt is popularly known as KRISHNAMURT]) PADH. 
DHATL 


All the creation: of God must die either in the intrauterine 
fe or bora dead, or in the :afancy of in the youth or mn the old 
age. Death ws a certainty; it = inevitable: af winch me it 
comes, none knows Pages after pages one may write, methods 
after methods. ope can pubbsh: sympowum after symponum 
one can collect; but people with open mind will say that nothing 
serves usefui purpoer. 

Let them follow K.P.; they will say after thoroughly 
understanding the subject, explained m a very simple way, 
applying strictly Krishnamurti’s method as instructed by him, 
casuog the horoscope usng KRISHNAMURTI EPHEMERIS, 
KRISHNAMURTI AYANAMSA, and RAPHAEL'S TABLE 
OF HOUSES, and also the HORARY SYSTEM—KRISHNA- 


67 


MURTI PADHDHATIW—one can confirm the date aad the ume 
and declare the resuk which will prove to be correct. 


99% of the people get marned. Which 1s mnportast? To 
give the date of marrage ; if fate w to suffer, then to give the 
date of divorce; if tuck is there, to give the date of birth of 
children, etc. Is not? , 


A few percentage of the people alone own houses, 80 many 
have to hve in rented buildings or in Government quarters, of m 
office accommodations. As most of them do not ows, will they 
have any of thar own at all; if so. when they can have, is to be 
clearly and correctly predicted 

Nowadays most of the students and those employed, desire 
to know whether they would get scholarship to go overseas, and 
persecute higher studies. Actually ims question wes act tackled 
by our anceents. K.P alone is useful. 


' When the old scholars expounded the theory of Astrology, 
they were living in a land when Pakstan and ladis was one. 
They said that Capricorn represented Inds. They have aot pvea 
scparately which sgn will represent Pakistan; therefore the 
difficulty arises for a student to know whether Capncorn mdi- 
cates Pakistan of Indie =— But if one follows the Horary System 
of Astrology —KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI—te aced not 
pose such a problem. Horary answers. 


Thus there ure hundreds of problems for which we have to 
guess if we follow only the tradstionel system. But K. P. deab 
with eech problem, gives most satisfactory and sciennfic exple- 
nation, calculating on sample and single method and it offen 
straight answer, solving thc problem. K. P. can be followed 
by even a layman not knowmg, previously, anything about 
astrology. 


ZODIAC 


, _ Division of the Zodiac :—The Zodsec 13 divided into twelve 
cqual parts ; each division is called a Solar mansion (or resi, 
Or sign.) 


They are Anes Taurus, Gemimi, Cancers, Leo, Virgo, 

The Hindus have another division also. The Zodiac ss 
divided into twenty-seven equal parts; cach measures 13° 21. 
They commence from Anes0 and end by Pisces 30°. The 
27 divwsons are called Lunar Mansions {Nakshatras, Asterism, 
Stars—Constelistions). They are called Aswini, Bharan, 
Karthikai, Rohm... ...Uthrapathrapads and Revath. 


The explanaton that I can offer why they have taken 
9 planets and divided the Zodiac mio 27 Nakshatras 1s as 
follows :- 

The Zodiac ib 360° in longuude. Whal m the sanctity in 
the number 360. Probably. Sun moves in between the stars, in 
us path the Eclipuic--daily on an averayc, about .', of the 
cirche So, every day. in 24 hours, Sun moves I‘ Further, 360 
us divindle by 1. 2. 3, 4, 5, 6. 7. 8, 9. 10, 12. etc. when it will bc 
easy for other calculation 


It cs first divided into 3 equal pans of IAP cach = The four 
wget Anes, Taurus, Gemim: and Cancer mske up 120°. Th 
next four ngns Loo, Virgo, Labra and Scorpio form 120°, Sagi- 
tarts, Capncorn. Aquarrus and Pisces ase the last 4 signs 
measuring | 20°. 

All plancts moving from Vernal Equinox Anes— Mesha 0° 
according to Nirayana Sysiem—get thea resulis modified as they 
move in the Zodiac In the first 13° 20, ic., 0 to 13° 20° any 
planct transitung in Mesha (Anes) will be influenced by Kethu. 
and the constellation is called Aswini Then when it passes op. 
between 13° 20 and 26° 40°, Venus mflucnces it, this area ts 
called Bharani. Between 26° 40’ and 30° of Aries and from 0 
Taurus to 10° Taurus. the planet's results will he modified by 
Sun. Karthikai is the name of the star, of constellation which 
I call as Zone. Then from 10° Taurus to 23° 20' Moon modi- 
fhes the results of the planet oocupying ths Zone ur Lunar Man- 
non called Robie) Between 23° 20 in Taurus and 30° Taurs. 
as wel) as 0 Gemm to 6° 40’ m Gemini, the Zone of mansion 


called Mrigasineha 13 roled by Mars and the planct m this Zoae 
will be under the control of Mars. 


The next 13° 20. called Arudra, is governed by Rabu. 
next Punarvesu is ruled by Jupiter (Garu). It is followed by 
Pushya and Ashlesha governed by Saturn and Mercury respecti- 
vely. 


Similarly, from Simha 0 (Leo) upto the cad of Scorpio. 
the four signs are divided into 9 lunar mansions (called 
Nakshatra, Stars of Constellations). They are called Makam. 
Poorvapaiguni, Uthrapalgun:, Hastham. Chuithra,, Swathi. 
Visakam, Anuradha and Jyeshts which are ruled by 9 planets 
in the same order, wz. Kethu, Venus, Sun, Mooa, Mars 
(Sevvas, Mangal. Angaraka. Kuja). Rahu. Jupiter (Guru) 
Saturn (Sani), and Mercury (Budha) 


, The remaining 1/3 of the Zodiac contains ibe 4 signs Sagit- 
tanus, Capricorn, Aquanus and Pisces; and the ame constella- 
lions 19 it are Moolam, Poorvashada, Uthrasheda, Sravana. 
Dhanishts, Sathabwsha, Poorvapathrapada, Uthrapathrapeda 
and Revath). The planets Kethu. Veaus, Sun. Moon, Mars, 
Rahu. Jupiter. Saturn and Mercury rule the stars in the same 
order. 


Hence, plancts in between 0 and 13° 20’ in Anes (Aswia:), 
O and 13° 20 in Leo (Makam). and 0° and 13° 20 m Sagitta. 
rius (Moolam) will be under Use sway of Kethu ; 13° 20° in Aries 
to 26° 40° Bharani. 13° 20 to 26°40 (Leo) Poorvapalguni. 
13° 20 to 26° 40’ 10 Sagrttanus (Poorvashada), these three zones 
are roled by Venus and planets transitting in these zone: are 
under the influence of Venus and the results of Venus will be 
offered by the planet. transituag im this Zone. 

Thus, each planet governs tarce zones m the Zodiac. 

If a planet were to be in Aswini, another in Makam and 
the third in Moolam. all are under the influence of Ketha and 


m Kethu's zone. If the astrologer says that a planet s modi 
fied by the lord of the constellation Kethu, then *e statersent is 


not compicte and clear. He has to add, whether & is in Aries, 
or Leo, or Sagittarius, otherwise one cannot locate the position 
of the planet correctly. That s why 27 diflerent names are 
given to the 27 constellations. 


Asewini — Anctus — Stars 3 
Bharani — Anctsa Mus—3 «© 
Krithka — Tsun Aloyoai — 6 
Rotuni — Taun Aldeboran —5 
Mngasra — Onocais 3 
Arudra -- Orioan | 
Punarvasu — Gemini Pollux 5 
Pushyam: — Caacn — 3 
Aslesha — Hydrac — 6 
Maekha — Leonis Regular 5$ 


Pubbe | —Leons -- 4 


Hasta — Corvi- - $ 

Chara — Virgrms Sprca - - | 
Swathi -. Boothis Arcturus- 1 
Visbahea- Librae- 3 
Anuradha -- Scorpioan =}. 
Jyeshta- Antaras- 3 


Moole — Scorpionis- 6 
Purvashada 1 
cae es 


Sravana — Aquilate — 3 

Dhanishta —. Deiphini -— 4 
Satabhisha — Aquari— 100 
Purvabbadra—Pegasi 

Utiarabhadra — Pegasi and Andremedac 
Revathi -- Pictum- - 3 


td 
ae 


calculate aad ascertain the position of the 27 zones in the Zodiac, 
each messuring 13° 20. 


73 


married ; Venus Dasa, Sun Bhukth: be starts busseces;, Veuns 
Desa, Moon Bhukthi be goes overseas, Venus Dass, Mars bhukthi 
he bas aston. Venus Dasa Rabu Bhukthi some elder member in 
the family passes away; Venus Dasa Jupiter Bhukth: there ss 
expansion im the busines, and he has another cid. Dunng 
Venus Dasa, Seturn Bhukti there ts some labour trouble and 
minoe loses. In Venuf Dasa, Mercury Bhuku be opens bran- 
chea, takes up agences and during Venus Dasa Kethu Bhukthi be 
visits various pilgrim cenires. On the whole, no doubt, the 
person got married, started business. went overseas, capanded 
business and stabilised 1 = Aho one should not forget that be 
had lost a member of the family, had labour trouble, cuffered 
some loss and had worries for some time If 8 perioa is 
informed that in these 20 ycars, Venus will cause Rapyogs it 
will not help him much. But indeed. it would be useful oaly 
when he 1s informed both the ume of event and alto the nature 
vf event, both good and bad = So. the dasa of 3 years is sud- 
divided into sub-periods otherwise called bhaukt:. 


On the same ansiogy, I established that the division of a 
constellation wan necessary if correct results arc to be forecast. 


Suppose a person 1s mformed that he will have very good 
business and profit on a particular day He feeb depresecd till 
2 p.m., as there wat no butiness fill then and im these hours be 
loses his faith in astrology: but the planets so adjust tha: a few 
marriage parties enter hes chop and make purchases from him 
for an amount much greater than what be had been normally 
collecting deity. If the same actrologer could tell him that oaly 
between 2 and 4 p.m. on that day be would do excellent busr 
ness, it would have been advantageous for both Then the 
method is scientific so the sub-divrsions of the constellation are 
an imperative necessity to predict exact time of event 

Again, as a result of intepsave research it hes been posible 
to find out why a person receiving a few letters on a day in a 
perucular moment, fecls very happy when be goes through the 
contents of a letter, next feels dejected and depressed, when he 
reads the other, gets irritated when he goes U..vugh the third 


74 


and s0 on. it was found that the ascendant and the cusp of the 
houses move faster than the planets and it is the ascendant and 
the cusp of the houses which explain such rapid changes due to 
occupation of the star and sub. 

The ascendant can move in a sign for about 2 hours; but 
tm a constellauon, « can only be for gbout S@ito 58 minutes. 
But certain events may happen within an imterval of 10 or 15 
minutes. Therefore, there should be some other minute factor 
which brings about varying results m a very short ime. So, it 
was found tha: the ascendant m that constellation (star) showed 
that he would reorive letters. But to sndscate which moment he 
would read a pleasant leticr, which moment he would read that 
letter winch would irrrtate bim and so on, further divisions of 
the constellation was necessary This method was found in 195! 
and % is convincing, and most scientific. 


Let us take another crampk «© Suppoac. we judge the :caulj> 
according tp the transit of the planets. It is generally stated that 
Saturn while transiting the I]th howe will produce most desit- 
able results. 

Setern will be pumang through the 1)th bowc, rvughly for 
a period of two and a half years Saturn signi6es certain matters 
to the person according to hn chant and only such of thorec 
matters alone will be cxpected hy him. It is nol uncommon (1) 
that for a long time after the entry of Saturn into the Lith 
house, the person conunues to suffer and 1s not able to reconcile, 
(2) some actually suffer all the timc whereas they enjoy when 
Seture transsts im the 12th wgn. When Saturn is in |], what 
actually one will enjoy. or eapenence depends on tbe lord of the 
constelisuoea and the lord of the sub, acoording to Knebnamurt: 
Padhdheti and this would explain why the Tradstvonal systerh 
fails miserably 

First of all, 1 would bke to say emphabwcally that all persons 
having Saturn in 11 can never expect favourable results because 
the ascendant may be dificrent and the lords of the cosstellauons: 
ia the 11th bouse may be ruling evil houses to that lagna-born. 
Thereby the person will and must experience difficulves through 


75 


the source imdbcated by Saturn (the transsting pianct). But, 
according to my technique, when Saturn is passing in a 
constellation, throughout that penod, he sether enjoys sor 
suffers uniformly, but during certain periods be finds beneficisi 
results compensating for the difficulties’ The method which 
I advocate is mery correct and it will never fail, because, | 
take the sulldivision ‘of the constellation. The constells- 
tuon indicates the matter signified by :ts lords: the planct 
transiting influence such results denoted by the lord of 
the star through the source denoted by the transiting planet (by 
nature, lordship and occupation etc.) and 11 1 the sub-lord which 
decides whether the result 11 favourable or unfavourable. The 
lord of the constellation «= similar to the lord of a dasa of the 
Vimshothari system, whereas the sub is the lord of the sub- 
petiod™or Bhuktz. So, I have evolved a method to divide the 
constellation based upon the sound principles of astrology, which 
will appeal to one and all. 


Suppose, Moon cater « particular constcilation, my 
Bharani (the second star of the 27 stars), the longitude of which 
extends from 13° 20 to 26° 40 of Ares (Mesha) and a child is 
born at that moment. What do we say? is it act that the 
child is to run Venw Dasa and it will have 20 yoars of Venus 
Desa left over at the ume of the bith? The child 1s having 
Venus Dasa, Venus Bhukti st the time of the birth = If Moon 
moves a little further. say J) (ue. 14° 20 in Anecs— Mesha), we 
say that the child has a balance of 18 years 6 months and also 
thet the child will have Venus Dass, Venus Bhukt: at the ume of 
the birth. But, when Moon has moved 20/120 of Bharani and 
a child is born then, we say that the child hes a balance of 16 
years 8 months and that the child is having Venus Desa, Sun 
Bhukti, just starting. If Moon further moves by 6/120 of the 
star, and a child §s born. we say that the chikd coramences with 
Moon Bhukti_ If further Moon moves by 10/120 of the star, we 
pay the child will be having Venus Dass, Mars Bhukt. Moon 
moves further by 7/120 of Bharana. So, Mars subd is also over : 
Rabu sub starts. Let it goon. When t comp':.cs 18/120 of 


thes star, Raby subd ss over and Jupiter starts. Thus, it will be 
seen that the Moon is influenced by the exact position which it 
Occupees mm the constellavon. Therefore, Moon im the begmnsing 
8 under the sway of Venus and the sub of Venus. Then, Mooa 
te in the constellation of Venus and the sub of Sun. Next it 
pamed m the same constellation beloaging to Veaus but in the 
sub of Moon It is followed by the sub of Mars, then by Raku, 
Juprter, Saturn, Mercury. and lastly by Kethu. So socording to 
Krahnamerti Pedhdhati cock constellation it sub-divided into 
9 parta. They are not equal m the longstude but the longitude 
of each sub 3s in the proportion in which they are allotted the 
total eumber of years m Virashothan Das sysien 


The longitude of cach constcliauon 1s 13° 20 equal to 800 
sainutes. Therefore, in every consieliation of 800 minutes cach 
planet will hsve an area equal to the number of years ablotied 
to cach in the dass multiplied by 6 and 2;3 minutes. Therefore, 
Sun's wb extends to 40 musute whatever be the constellation. 
Mers asd Kethy crtend for 46-23 minutes, Moon extends for 
I* 623, Rabu cxteads for exactly 2 Jupiter has an arce of 
bY 46 40° . Mercasy § 53 20’. Satura 2° 17 20’. 


Evee though the aren allotted to cach planet ss the same in 
cach star, yet tbe order va which they occupy the constellstion 
difers Tu notc the order, onc has to find oul which planci 
rules the comstellavon. then the beginning of the constellation 1» 
taled by the lord of tbe star, pust like in any dass, the first sub- 
penod or bhukt: ruled by the dasa lord. The second subd 1s 
railed by the bhuku lord who will follow the dasa lord. Then 
sa the same cyclic order the apbs will be ruled as in the Dhukts. 


In Aswin:. the frm sub is allotted to Kethu, the second to 
Venus, the third to Sun, the fourth to Moon and 80 on till the 
lest seb ts given to Mercury. Aswini ss ruled by Kethu. So the 
ferst subd is allotted to Kethu. 


If the star = Robim, note the lord of the star. it s Moca. 


Heace, allot the fins sub to Moon. In the cyclic order, who. 


etl follow Moos? its Mars So the second sub is given to 


77 


Mars, the turd to Rahu, the fourth to Jupster and so oa ull the 
last sub is governed by San. 


If the star is Punarpushyam. otherwise called Punarvasu, 
the first subdivision is governed by Jupner, neat by Satura and 
the last by Rabu. 


If the star is Pushy@, the lord s Saturn. Therefore the firsi 
sub is governed by Saturn, the second sub ts ruled by Mercury, 
Une uhurd is allotted to Kethu and so on ull the bast subd 1s under 
the sway of Jupster. 


If the star is Asleshs. otherwise called Ayilyam, the frst 
sub-division is governed by Mercury, the next by Kethw and so 
un, ull the last sub-divisson 1s allotted to Saturn. 


Thus all the twenty-seven stars ase divided anmung the mince 
planets. it may appear as though the whole Zodiac 1s divided 
into 27 muluplhed by 9 parts. Actually, the lord of the sgn, the 
lord of the star and the lord of the sub will be 249 instead of 
243. Wf one can refer to the table. it 3 easy for one to known 
how the stars °71in uwumber even though cach » divided into 
9 divisions, totalhag to 243 divisoms yet duc to the change in 
the sgn bord (lord of the sign), as certain subs are found in 2 
adjacent signs, they are 249 in oumber. (Furthermore one 
can sub-divide and record the results.) 


CONSTELLATION AND SUS 


The zodiac » divided into 27 equal perts. Each is called 
an asterism, Nakshatbra, star or constellation. They are equal 
in longitude. Each constellauon ss 13°20 of 800. It som- 
mences from Mesha Arics O which sever 180° oppoute to Sprca 
Star and the 27 stars ruled by Kethu, Venus, Sun, Moon, Mars, 
Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn asd Mercury in the above order make up 
the Zodiac of 360°. Afler these 9 planets in the above order 
extend from Aries 0 to Cancer 30°, again they, in the same 
order extend from Leo 0° to Scorpio 30°; again they follow the 
same order Kethu to Mercury from Sagittarius 0 to Pisces 30°. 
Thus Kethu has 3 zones. Next to the zone of \ethu, Venous 


hes 3 roges; sext to Venus, Sun roles 3 stars. Next to Sun, 
Moon governs 3 stars. Thus cach planct rules 3 stars. 


Therefore 

Kethu rules Aswini, Maka aad Moola. (1-10-19) 

Veaus rules Bharan), P. Palguni and Poorvasheds, 
(2-11-20) 

Sue rules Karthik, U. Paigon: and Uthrachada. (3, 12, 21) 

Mooa raies ‘Robins, Hastha and Sravana. (4, 13, 22) 

Mare rules Mrigasara, Chitra and Dhanishbts. (5, 14, 23) 

Rabu rules Arudhra, Swathi and Sathabshba. (6, 15, 24) 

Jupiter rules P. Vasu. Vieaka, P. P. Pada. (7, 16, 25) 

Saturn rules Pushys. Anuradha, U.P. Pade, (8, 17, 26) 

Mercury roles Ashiesha. Jycshta, Revathi. (9, 48, 27) 


Stace the Zodiac 1s of 360° and it 1s oqually, divided tuto 
12 sigm, each extending to 30° exactly. in cach sign there will 
ve, on the whole 2-1-4 constellation. 


In Aries. Aswini, Bharan: and 3 20° of Karthik, in 
Teerus, Karthsk remaining 10°, Rohin: and Mrigamra 6° 40 , 
im Geenini Mrigasira remaining 6” 40° Arudhra and P. Vasu 10°. 


ln Cancer :emamuing 3° 20 P. Vasu, Pushya and Aahiesha. 
Tous in Leo Maks. P. P. Guni and 1/4 of U.P. Guni: im Virgo 
34, U.P. Guai, Hastha, Chitra 1/2: to Libra Chitra |/2, Swath 
Vieaka 34, 10 Scorpio Visaka |1'4 Anuradha and Jyeshta. In 
Sagittarrus Moole, P. Shada snd U. Shada fires 1:4; in Capr- 
com remainzog 3/4. U. Shada. Sravana. Dhbansshta 1/2; In 
Aquaries remaining |/2 Dhanishta, Sathabishs P.P. Pada 34. In 
Puces. P.P. Pada remaming |/4. U. Pada and Revath. 


The sign is not a important as the coastellanon. The sub 
is more important. The agn gives an idea about the strength 
of the planct. Planet occupying a house is stronger than the 
owners of the sign. Tenant is stronger than the owner. Here 
there are two mapaions. One is the sign, Le, one of the twelve 
equa] divisions of the zodiac. The other is the equal divisiogs 


Rp 


of the zodiac into 27 equal parts whuch = |3 degrees 20 minutes 
cach, called constellation. Therefore, the temant ins sign is 
stroages than the lord of the sign and the tenant in a conseciia- 
bon = stronger than the lord of the constellation. 


Hence a plenct te nign will give to a greater extent the 
results of the Bouse im ,which its position s. The planet in a 
coastellation will offer the results of the Bhava-house occupied 
by the lord of the constellation. 


All plancts must be in a howe and also nm any constelia- 
ton. Constellation is stronger than the sign. 

Hence the planet whch  gatuated in the coastelisticon 36 
the strongest to offer the results of the house occupecd by the 
lord of the constellatioa. 

Tien the cocupant of a housc is strong to give the resales 
of the bouse occupied by it. 

Next comes the planct depossted in the consieiletion of the 
lord of the ngn were the cusp of a hover fall. 

Thea only the bord of the sign where the cusp of a house falls. 

Planets which are conjoined with or aspected by these agn- 
ficators ascertained by the above anstyns abo are to offer the 


resuits of the houses indicated by the ssgnsficaiors, Thus cae 
to find out the role of scsiipuebieiapaeeainsadlatnilaiioacs 


sign, and stars. | sar mas ein se 3.36! 


Mess «IV 11.45 Bebe?) 
Thes is the Gading afters 
many years of research 


A planet is m 2th 
Bhava. It is sid that it 





Jeputer Desa 3 years | month 6 deys. 

This geatlenan had gams, fortune and success during 
Setumn, Mars and Sem sub penods; desirable benefits during 
Jupiter and Mercury mb penods, But Kethu in 10. Venus in 
1! and Rabu m 4 gave untoward and undesrrabic results. 


Accordsang to traditional system, Sagurn and Sun must be 
the worst. Jupster also will fall.in i2th Bhava and ought to 
bave been very bed Venus and Budba causing Dharma 
Karmadhipathi Rayyogs should give bnibam reults. Rabe 
tepresentiag Venus must cause Rajayogsa. Mars should be 
dangrrous. This person was my ([ricod for a long number of 
years aad such results alone Gpened my eves. 


in 1939, aben I visited Counbatorc, } heard one Nad 
reader reading thc iesuls of 2 few penom mbh comsg | 
uadersiood that planets’ results were reed es they were found in 
the Bhaves Ther { heerd many Ned: readers None mede 
use of the constellation. While reading the Nadi, I under. 
00d thet without assigning the reason. the rosults were read 
end they were astoundingly meticulously correcf For 
the Anat: thcy gave tbe 1casons taking the traditional methods 
of the Bhavas and the future proved to be mostly a failure So, 
I started the research collecting the horoscopes of old people 
with past events. 


Such horoscopes a shown above threw the light. What is 
a’? A phanct ‘A’ offers the results of the house occupied by 
the lord of the star ‘ B ° wherein this pisnet ‘A ° is deposed. 


Agus trovtie aruse eben 2, 3 of 4 planets were found in 
the same coostellation. as ali the slanets in the seme star, 
theagh referring the same matters, yet gave dieneirically 
oppesite results, Le., if planets A. B,C and D are ip one 
coosteliation. m the seme bowe. A and C gave plement 
reais wheress B and D gave just opposite resuks This made 
me think fertber. I found thst a particular diem fp to causes 
Rajsyogs. But yet. be gets most desirable results ia some Buk- 
ties and irrepairable cieedvantagcous resultsin some Bhukties. 


—- ~~ 2 


si 


Then I started doing rcsearck and m all cases 1 found thet 
planets, though they aren the same constellauco, yet a few 
of thera alone can be beneficial and 2 few must be unfavourable. 
Thi caused me to further carry on the research. I found that 
every constellation must be divided in the manner, I have said, 
into 9 subs and each sub having that area in a constellation in 
the proportion in which they are allotted the number of years ia 
Vimsodhan Dasa. 


I proved that planets occupying any one consicilapon hes 
connecion with the bhava occupred by the lord of the constella- 
tion. These planets in that consicllauom are termed as the 
* Sigaificators ” of the Bhava ooaypied by the lord of the cons- 
tellation. Thus if one works out, for all the plancts. then cach 
planct is found to signify the matter. of a few howses 


Then judge cach planet. The planct wugn.6e 0 mater. 
Whether it voess for the progress and prosperty of that matter 
depends on the sub lord, 11.18 not capable of dowmg good, bet, it 
doe harm to that bhava signified by the planet, if the sub lord 
'« detrimental to that house matten 


This discovery has crowned me with .uccess. 


lsay, “If a planet the sagnifcator of lagns bhava, & 
pves long life. success in attempts, ¢ helps to maintain good 
health, if the sub lord 1s not also the significator of 6 of 8 of 12. 
If the sub-lord of the planet signifies &h house if the planet 
signifying lagna results ty ococupying the constellation of a 
planet in Lagna Bhava Occuprees such a subd ruled by the signi- 
ficator of 6, be falls if. The constellation refers hes bealth, eb 
signifying 6 goves disease =f a planet signifies lagne bhava and 
Xt is in the sub of the siguficator of 8 he mocts with danger. 

If the sub-lord signifies 12th howse and the significator of 
lagne is in such a sub, onc runs away, of ompntoned, or 
hoepita heed. 

Therefore ecasiellation lord shows whom or which matte 
it refers. Bua the deciding factor, good or bed. success or 
faiure is shown by the sub occupied by the signif -_tor. 


HB. A—7 


Seppoes a plenct A is the significator of secand bhava and 
% i8 m the sub of 6 one borrows but if it is in the sub of 8 of 12, 
he lends of repays loan. Second shows finance. Do you reocive 
& cheque of iesee a cheque is shown by the sub-lord. 


Hf it is im the oubdof 1}, there 1s gain of what? Either 
moacy of soe-m-lsw of daughter -en-baw or child birth to the 
person. Because 2nd house shows family, }!th indicates the 
above relanons If the mgnificator of the second house is in the 
sab of the signsficator of 3, through brother one gains, brother 
loses or gives away: if it is mm the sub of 4, one may have car 
or Bouse during the penod of the significator of 2nd house 
deposited im the sub of 4th howse significator, in their conjoined 
penods. If the significator of the 4th house rules the sub and :f 
it is, also the significator or 11, be purchases and acquires: if 
the sud-lord who is also the significator of 12 other than 4, be 
sells and converts the permanent posseision as bquid cash and 
bis bank postion improves by losing the car or buildiag = iif 
the sub-lord of planct signifying sccond house is the significator 
of 10 and 12, chen he lets his land for tenancy of lets the house 
for ret. Why? 10th house ss the 4th to the 7th which whom 
you transact : So, that which he takes, is given by you (12) and 
be ws imdedted (6). 10th besng 4 to 7, 10 denotes other's posecs- 
sion and it is your business 

Suppose a planet 1s tbe wgmGcator of 7th bouse and if it is 
ta the sub of 2 or 11 one gains, there is reunion, one gets 
masried, etc If it is in the sub of the significator of 12, sepa- 
ration of ili-bealth to wife If i is im the sub of | and 2, 
danger to partner's life. There can be 3 or 4 of any number of 
wgaiGcators for the 7th. Therefore, during the period or sub- 
period of a planet in such a sub whose lord signifies | 2th house, 
wife falls ill or the native goes away and separation is caused. 
If the sub-lord signifies 6th house, the wife goes away, thereby 
there is separabon. 

If the planet is the significator of 7th bouseand sub of 


partaer gains, makes moncy, and carne name. If the significator 
of 7 is ia the sub of 5, partner makes moaey, friendship and 


&3 


enjoys pleasure. Lf the sub is ruled by the significator of 
Sth house, there is either mcome or danger to life. If thet 
significator of 8th house is also significator of 5, partner gains. 
But significator of 8 is also mgnificator of | and 7, @ means 
Geath to partner as 8 and | are maraka houses to the 7th 

Thus one should ages separately whet cach planct significs. 

Then in which sub cach planet is posited. 

Finally one should take cach house and judge to which 
bhavas the planets are the significators aad the sub-lords. Judge 


calmly how cach bhava is receiving good results from a few and 
adverse from the rest. 


Say, mother, father, child, etc. Mother is shown by 4th 
house: father by 9th house child by Sth howse. 


So, note the significators of 4: »0 also the significators of 
9 and S$. 


Let us take the following chert: 


1X O30 X40 





deo. 0-27) ee = Robe | Xt tee = S23. 
Soe ard} The constellation raled 


VIE) 28-30 matiers wgnifed 
Vil O66 em | — 1928 , Ue iikeve et ee 
706 P.M. ere. een : 
i we 13-06 N Md | owned by it. 
Baes. 
Sue 15-40 Se Mees | — The sub-lord occupied 
ViO-30 by a planct denotes 


Mere pe 
amhe 
lll @39 
Vee. 2-53; 23-23 ae 
y 1-39 | IV 1-90 bhava of iMauspiciows 80 


—- -! that one meets with 
obstacle of faces disappointment or negation of the matter. 
This apphes to all bhava results. If lagna is occupeed by 8 
planet or owned by one and if a planet esther the same lagns- 
dMpathi or any other planet is deposited im the occupent’s or 
owner's stas, then they imdicate Gret house <.atters. If the 


depositor ia that constellabon is m the fayourable sub, matters 
indicated by lagna will thnve. If the depositor in that constel- 
lation is in unfavourable sub, the matter is indicated by the lord 
of the constellation as pcr its occupation of ownership wil) 
euffer : must suffer. There is nothing as ‘ Tendency.’ one’s Free- 
Will can never play. 


Lord of lagna is Sun: no planet is m lagna. Sun's stan 
are Karthik, Uthrapalguni and Uthrashada. Plancts, if doposi- 
ted 19 these stars wil! refer the matters agnifed by the firs: house. 
If there is no planct. Sun gives lagna bhava results Secretary 
hes 3} Deputy Sccretanes are given 3} rooms to carry out the 
maiructions of tbe Secretary If all 3 rooms are vacant, if no 
Deputy is found, Secretary does the job. even when they arc 
there, Secretary can do otber than what the Deputys do. 


There 13 no planci i» Sun’s star. Heme Sun gives lagna 
resuks. Sun isin Moon's star. Mooa 1 109 and owns 12. 
Hence Sun mostly refers to the matters signiBed by 9 and 12, j.c.. 
long journcy. staying outesde. flow of father, permanent 
poserssion of father. .eparation from father. Let us judge the 
Geath of bus father. 


Nove the sub occupeed by Sun. It is in Jupiter's sub. 
What can Jupner do to the Hh house? What can Jupker do to 
the 12th house 7 


Jupster 3 im Saturn star As Saturn » the Bhedhskasthans 
Adtupath: to 9, Jupster indocates Bhadhaka to feather. There- 
fore, if a constellation mdicates father, then the sub of Jupiter 
m that constellsuon indicates danger to the father. 


Therefore Sun in the constellation of Moon in 9 and sub 
of Jupster—the Bhadhaka to father. promises danger to father. 


Mb house 1s owned by Mars. It governs Mrigasira, Chitra 
and Dhenishta stars. Rabu and Mercury are ir Mars star. 
Rabu is m the sub of Mars who denotes longevity to father. 
Mercury is in the seb of Sana, Bhadhaks to father. Hente 
Raby is a bencic whereas Mercury is evil. 


To the longevity of father houses 2 and 3 counted from 9th 
isevil. Both are owned by Venus Rabe occupies 2 to 9: 
Mars occupies Venus star, nonce in Rahu star. Mars is sm the 
eb of Venus So itis bannful: Rahu ic im the wb of Mars. 
It is good. 

Therefore Sun, Mercury and Mars are evil. Venus is in Jupi- 
ter sub. Venus it alto evil. (Venus sm the consicllanoe of 
Ketbu who represents 4th and Mh howses. Therefore Venus 
indicates the houses 9, 10 and 3 danger to father.) 

His father died duriag Sun Desa. Mercury Bhukti Veuus 
Anthrs io July 1952. 

Let us judge 4th house. | s occured by Seni and Ketbu. 
it is owned by Mass. So plancts in Saturn's stars, Ketho stars 
and Mars stars are those which refer 4th house matters. 

Venus m Ketho star, Jupiter in Seturn star. Mercury in 
Mars star indicate 4th house matters 

Venus « in the sub of Jupiter, Marakasthana adhspathi 
and Venus ss in Marahasthana to 4. 

Jupiter is m Venus sud. it 1s evil Mercury is im Saturn 
wd. As Saturn ss in rapt consuncuon with Kethu aad Saturn is 
in the constellation of the 8th from 4th. Mercury 1s evil. Saturn 
is also evil. 

Now Venus, Metcury. Man. Saturn, Mooa, etc. refer 4th 
house matters. it «s the lord of the sub which indbostes whether 
4th houte mateer will Uhrive of aot. 

Venus 1p 2 in the sub of lord of 2. 

Mercury in the coestellation of pleset im 2 to 4, owner of 
4 and in sub of evil in 4. 

Seturn im the sub of Jupiter and Kethu in the sub of Jupe- 
ter, both occupying 4th bouse are evil Hence be lost his 
mother during Venus Desa Mercury Bhukt: Saturna Aathrs 
on 27-4-47. 

Fifth house, i.e., the second to the 4th house by occupe- 
toe and it refers the fourth house being the owecr of the 4h. 


Heace Mars indicate about health and causes death during the 
sub period of the planet in the star, if amy, and which is in the 
sub of one referring the 4th or Sth or [0th (Sth and 10th are 
Merakea houses to the 4th). Mercury is in Mars star and sub of 
Seni who signifies to the 4th. 


Let us find out the date of the death of his mother. It was 
0a 27-4-47 when Venus Dasa (in the constellation of occupant 
of 4 and sub of the occupant of 10) Mercury Bhukti (constella- 
tioe of planct in 2 to 4 and sub of planct in 4) and anthra of 
Seturn wtoch refers the 4th house (to give Life or cause death 
depending on the mb which Saturn occupied) and it is in the 
sub of Mars and Shookshma of Rabu in 10 which is also in the 
constellation of Mars in 2 to 4 and sub of Mars. 


Dey of demise—Friday Star Moolam where Dasanatha 
was (Jupiter rase—Jupster agnificator of 41n Saturn star and 
sub of Venus in 2 to 4) at night which lagna wasin Poorsa- 
sheda 15° in Dhaaus. 


Death of child. Happened during Moon Dasa Jupiter 
Bhekti Rahu Anthra Moon 1s 1m the constellation of Kethu and 
mb of Mercury. Kethu has to give the results of planet with 
which it is conjoined, as it is a node. Saetura is lord of 2 to $ 
and situated m 12 to $. Hence Moon n definitely evil as it 
is in the constellation of the node representing tbe second house 
to the Sth and in the sub of lord of 7 to 5, situated in 2 to 5. 


Jupiter 13 m tbe constellation of Saturn, lord of 2 im 12 to 
$ch bouse and sub of Venus, which is the occupant of 5 in the 
constelisuon of pode in 12 to $. Venus itself 13 evil to $. Mars 
in Venus star and Veaus sub is also evi). Rabu in Venus sign, 
Mars star and Mars sub is definitely evil. 


Hence, Moon Desa Jupiter Bhukti Rebu Anthre was evil. 
Let us take pleasaat functions. 
Marriage: Judge howes 2, 7 and 1) cousted ftom lagna. 


2, 7 and 11 are vacant. 2 isruled by Sun I! iq reled 
by Mercury. 7 is owned by Saturn. 


$7 


Saturn and Kethu are in Mercury star. Jupiter is in Saturn's 
tar. Ketho is stronger than lord of 7. Moon end Venus are ia 
Cethu star. Sun is also strong as there is no planer in Sun's star. 

Marriage took place during Venus Dasa Kethu Bhukti Venus 
Anthra Moon Shookshma on 6-7-1947 on Sravanam star day. 
/eaus is in Kethu star. Kethu is stronger than Saturn, lord of 
7 (7th house vecant) Kethu is in the star of Mercury (lord 
1 and 11). Both houses, vacant. Moon os m Kethu star. 
Cethu stronger than Saturn, lord of 7. Keths has to predons- 
vantly indicate Saturn's result : then only that of Mars. Moon's 
tar isnotm Mars agn Hence, Sravanam star governed by 
Moon in Saturn's sign gave marriage. 

Normally when one finds Saturn and Kethy in 4 and 9th 
louse occupred by lord of 12, ons following traditione] Astro- 
ogy must sey that the nativo will have no tendency towards 
ducation. Also that he cannot come up nicely im studses. 
Not a word can be mentioned about marriage. 

But sccording to Kmshoamusti Padhdheti, Seturn and 
Cethu in 4 are in the constellation of Mercury, lord of 11 and 
ub of Mars, owner of 4 cducation 9 hugher education. 

According to Prof. Knshnamurti, if the dasenatha = con 
\ected with houses 4 and 9, they will give education. Venus io 
he constellation of node in 4, gave studies throughout Venus 
Dasa. Sun in the consteflauon of Moon in 9 gave higher studies. 
Xs Moon is also significator of 12, Sun in the constellation of 
Mioon, gave the break and ended bis stucves. He ducontinued hs 
tudies after successfully complenng Medical College course 
during Sun Dasa Saturn Bhuku Sun Anthra in December, 1952. 


ERECTION OF HORARY HOROSCOPE 

Books Needed: (1) Raphacl’s Table of houses and esther 
(2) Kshnamurti Ephemeris or Raphael's Epbermeris for the 
year when the chart is to be erected. (3) The Table showing 
the commencement of the sub according to the number given by 
the consultant. (4) Correct time when the astrologer begins to 
podge. 


The time te be taken for Herary Chart: Whether onc 
has the horoscope of not, whenever there is an immediate probd- 
lem, one would like to know or confirm by horary astrology 
also. So, one may visi the Astrologer’s place and the astro- 
loger may also start attending to one's problem, or one may send 
it by post or send a measenger to consult or ask by phone. 
Now, the doubt arses whether one has lo tale the time when a 
person begins to write a letter to -the astrologer; or when he 
posts it tm his locality; or when the astrologer receives it from 
the postman , or when the astrologer begins to judges. We must 
take only the time of judgment. The time at which the urge 
comes im mind of the constulant may be compered to the urge 
of a expectant mother needing s midwife's assistance. Posting 
the letter 13 semilar to getting a conveyance to go to the nuning 
home. Postman delivering the letter 1» sumilar to the expectant 
mother getting admitted into the labour ward. But the moment 
whee the astrologer wuts for judgment 1s umilar to the moment 
the whole body of the child has got seperated from that of the 
mother. If one were to erect a horoscope for the moment when 
the urge was in the mind of the consultant, it will show whether 
the astrologer would answer ai all or not: whether the astro- 
loges would take long tume to give the reply; and alo whether 
the letter was mss-cariied or delivered property to the astrologer 
For the urne when the postman delivers the letter if the boros- 
cope is cast, 11 will show when the astrologer will take it for 
podgment Bat if one takes the time when the astrologer crech 
a horoscope for the moment of the judgment, then the planets 
will be cocupyrag such a position which gives a clear pseture to 
the astrologer. The truth will dawn in hiss mad. Therefore. 
the ume of yudgment alone must be taken to give the results for 
the query put by the consultant and the number which he had 
written should remain the same. 

Accordingly, for the past 1% years, work bad been done 
and uniformly everywhere the results bad come very tree. The 
results had proved to be marvellous and very beipfel to the 
customer. Therefore, readers must take only the time of jadg- 
mem whatever may be the time of query by the comsultavt. 





DMS 


DMS. 





7% = =©SMoon Maer, Meroury 16 «0.60 1838 
76 . m Kethu 18 33 0 19.20.00 
77 i os Vea. 19 30 00 21339) 
78 - " Seca 2133 22.13 9 
7% ~ Soon 2213.90 23 20 0N 
mo , : Mare 2awon | 0% 
81g z Rebs 4460 8698 04 
ma . Jupiter ay ee ok 
— © e Saturn 87 63.20 30 00.00 
Lee Stivers 
“40 umn Bat hose Ketbu 0.00 00 0.40 
eS a Venw 0 4.00 3.00.00 
es ‘ es tan 3.00.00 3.00.00 
7. ‘“ 3 Moon 3 40.00 64.0 
mA ‘ . Mare 406m > 33.20 
a "i . Habe S$33% 73390 
@O — “ Se petee 733.20 90 ON 
9) ‘“ - Melern 9.20.00 11.298 
2. ~ iertarv 1298 13.30.00 
& ; Veae- Venw 13.90.00 16.33 39 
4 = Z Sem 18 83.20 16.1320 
- , : Moon 161390 = 1'7.20.U0 
es = s Mare 17 30.00 18 6@ 
97 a - Rabu 18 6@ 2 60 
i) n - Jupiter 20 600 21 83.20 
ae - ‘ Satura 21 53.20 94.00.00 
100 = e Mercury 94.08.00 26.58.9n 
a) | - s Keehu 38.53.30 96.60 00 
108. ‘‘ Ren a) 36 40.00 37 90.00 
168 o " Moon 77000 ' PM 
104 = _ Mare 23.28.60 °2213.20 
106 < - Rebs 29.13.26 $0 00.00 








‘Me Sign lord Starlord == Bub lord DB. Sma 
198, Venes Rak Mars 19.1390 2000.00 
138. ‘ Supehor J upéter 20 00 00 21 4 @ 
1@ “ ‘i Satwro 2) 4 23 63. 
lag . Marc ary SESH WwW 
le* Olle a Kethu 25 668 38 33 20 
1a. es. . Veaus 96.33 90 24.6 
14. ‘s a Sua 28.46 0 29 38 40 
1465 - ~ Moon 30 38 40 30.00.00 
Senepie— ¥ rrectii ar 

1 Mere Jupiter Moon 060.00 0.33 20 
147 i iz Mars 1133.99 3 30.0f 
148 s . Rak w 1.290 00 3.90.00 
1 ‘s Spey ti Matarn 2.30 On 636.0 
180 s a Mercury 696 0 7 90 0u 
{si o - Bt iets 7.20 00 6. 6.0 
Les8 ‘ = Veues A 60 10.28 00 
1a ‘s ” Sun 10.90 00 11.60.00 
184. “ “ Moon 11.00 00 12 6.00 
183 a Mars 18 4. 1283.30 
oO Rebo 1263290 1463.90 
7. n s Jupiter $48320 =: 16.40.00 
166 “ Mercuy Maervary 16.40 00 1633.20 
188 a Z Barto 1V33.90 19.20 00 
we. o as Vercvms 19.30.00 3133.20 
ia “ o San 81.33.90 22 13.20 
163. 3 = Boon 23.13. 0 33.20 00 
163. o o Mase $0.90 0 24.6W 
164 ss ¥ Rabo % 64 $6..600 
168. * * Jupiter 96. 6@ 37G830 
i8e. ss “ Saturn 37.533 0.09 80 
Sagietar tes ~ Diames 

167. Jupiter Ketha Matdss, 98B10 6 Aa ay 
166. = a Vegune 0.0.0 3,08 OO 
ae “ San 24000 83=s - B.a0 











No Gymilord Sarlerd Sab lord DMS DMS. 
24 feere 93 Mare Mass 23.30.00 uM 6.40 
B08 . Kalbe BM 6M 36. 640 
208 : Janes % 60 275320 
207 ‘ Matera 37 83 3 30.00 07 
. ‘ —_ 

208 Sesarn Mare Mercury 0 00 00 1.63.30 
208 s ¥ Kethu 163m 24000 
210 i, “ Veaw. 24000 453 90 
21) - a shan 1 53 90 533 # 
312 . = Moon 533 640m 
213 = 7 ie thal we 1.60 1 460 01) 
334 = ‘ig Jupiter ¥@Or 10 96 & 
216 S é Naterm 10 38 @ 12 33.20 
326 ‘ és Mercury i233 wD 14696 @) 
217 . ‘s Kethn 1428 @ 15 13.90 
218 en ; V ewe 1513 & 17 96.@ 
310 ‘ = Nun 17.296 @ 18 6@ 
230 ; e Moon 18 6 19.53.90 
23) = 2 Mar- 19 13.9% 90.08.00 
a? Ct igre Jupitee 290000 216660 
28 ‘ ° Setern 21 6.0 33.53.30 
p AN e 2 Mercury 23.53 Dv 36 46.0 
Se s ‘a b.the 25.46 28.33 30 
238 jis « Venu, 36 33 & 4 OO 
3s: ai = ) 23 46.0 29 36 0 
238 = 2 Moon 29 36 20 08 an 
Peces_ wm 

0 Jwewe super Moon 010.08 03330 
230 Re “ Mars 032.290 1.20.00 
331 ‘“ ~ Habe » 30.00 3.30 00 
2233 - RS Seours 3.20.80 5.38.40 
233 a Mereury £38 7 3040 
2% ~ Ketian 7.23008 8s 6m” 








No. Sign lord Sterlord Sub lerd DMs DMB 
235 4 Jepiter atem Venw £60 103000 
238 = a Nun 10 20 On 310000 
337 ‘“ - Moan 110000 if ¢w 
3238. i a Man 13 60 13 $3 30 
238 i e « =o Rhee 126320 14 5320 
4 « : Japiter 1463 2) 16 00 
4) 3 Mercary Warvery 16 #00 183320 
243 = e Keths JAIIM 19 2) 00 
343. - « Vea 19.20 ud 213320 
344 ‘a 7 Sen 1BMHM 22 1330 
345 * me Moon 3313 23 20 00 
246 . * Mare 3B Dow 24 60 
247 “ w Baha 24 Ow % 600 
244 — ii J apetee sS Ue 37 SAM 
249 is 7 Retera 7p won 00 Af 
Example 1. 


Calculation: Suppose a consultant gives a number, omy, 
483 witha | and 249, refernng to the Table of Krishnamurt: Padh- 
dhati, one can find, thet number 48 refers to Mercury sign, Rake 
star, Jupiter sub, which commences at 8° 40° rn Gemmi- Mrtbune. 


Since Krishnamurti Pedbdheti 1s the advanced stellar astro- 
logy, the zodiac 1s NIRAYANA one. But for finding out the 
position of the cusps of the houses, we refer to Raphael's Table 
of Houses, which is in Sayana system. Therefore, it 1s peceseary 
\o add the Ayenamen of that date of judgment to the position of 
the Ascendam, arrived at for the number given by the con- 
sultant. 


Hear, the cousultant bas given number 43. It means, the 
hegmning of the sub of the ascendant is in Gemini in 8° 40. 
Today, being 11th December, 1969, and the Ayanamea is 23° 29’. 
We have to add 8° 40’ m Gemini and 23° 20 and we get 32°. he 
means, the second degree in Cancer will be the So: ana Ascendant. 

uM A—S 


The question is judged at Madras. One is to take the lati- 
tude of the place where the astrologer fudges the horoscope 
even though the consultant would have written from any part of 
the world. Therefore, the lantude of 13° O4'N lautode for 
Madras ws to be taken up. 6 


Referring to Table of Houses, we Gnd that the position of 
the cusps are given for 13° of 14°. Smoe 13° 04 is nearer to 
13, we can refer to the Table of Houses given for 13° latitude. 
la that Table we have to find out where 2° Ascendant in Cancer 
is given. So, we will find that he has given, for 1° $4’ in Cancer, 
and 2° 45° m Cancer. But we should find out the cusps of other 
bouses if 2° Cancer 13 to be the Ascendant So, work ovt pro- 
porbonetely. 

Then, we will get that 28‘ 7 mm Cancer 1s the second cusp: 
25° 7 ia Leo will be the third cusp: 26° 7 in Pisces will be the 
tenth coup; 29° 7 in Aries wil] be the eleventh cusp: 2° 7' in 
Gemini will be the 12th cusp. 


All these are un Sayana pomtion We have to convert them 
to Nisayana. Therefore. deduct 23° 20. Then 8 40 m Gemini 
wil] be the Ascendant. 4° 47 in Cancer will be the 2nd cusp: 
1° 47 wa Leo ail) be the ed cusp, 2° 47 in Pisces will be the 
10th; 5° 47 in Aries will be the 1th: 8°47 in Taurus will be 
the 12th cusp. 


We have to add 160° to all these 6 cusps, so that 180° added 
to the ascendant ges the position of the 7th cusp. ‘180° 
added to the second cusp gives the position of the 8th ensp ; 
180° added to the 3rd cusp gives the position of the 9th cusp ; 
samilarty 180° added to the meridian (10th cusp) will give the 
cusp of the fourth 180 added to the ]}th cusp will give the 
position of the Sth cusp; 180° added to the i2th cusp will give 
the position of the 6b cusp. 


Therefore, the map showing the 12 cusps, will be a 
foRows : 


i We have already noted 
XK 2-47 | XI 3-47 cee hare the ume when we have 





started to judge the boros- 
nines aia "“— -" cope for a particular 
Ix 1-47 nes? | Wty. To that particular 

| ume, we have to work 
-—- - == out the possica of the 
planets and enter them m 
the map. 

Note the position of 
belance of the Vimsho- 
dhar Desa depending 

upon the portion which Moon has to cover in that constellation. 
Then this horary horoscope 1s ready for judgment. 


[Suppose one erects a chart with the idea of reading it 
Due to some couse, he cannot at one stretch do it. He leaves 
hia calculation: attends to some other job and then sits down 
again after some minutes or howrs or days, then the position of 
planets should be worked out for the next sitting time, though 
the 12 cusps for that latitude -emains the same. But if one 
starts calculetion, then goes away to another lecality, the 
latitude of the place is different, he has to refer to the Table 
of Houses for this new locality, Arve the seme position for 
ascendant (it means 7th cusp aiso) end.calvulate the cusps for 
this new place end also the position of planets for the second 
sliting.} 





VEmt 4-47" EIS 1-47 


Vil 6-40) VI 8-47 | Vv 3-4? 











Exempile 2. 


Sir, your students say that predictions based on the boros. 
cope of a person may of may not be correct. All the postion 
of the 12 cusps depend on the moment of the birth tme taken, 
gnd you decide whcther there is fulfilment of one's desire or mot 
Only from the subd-lord of the cusps to be taken for pudgmens. 
Hence, it seems you prefer Horary to Natal C*<rt. 


** Yes, undoubtedly. I reiterate that Horary is the best to 
get correct and amazing results ”. 

For Horary am | to give a number? 

** Yes, please meatioan any number between | and 249. 

Is it aumerology, Sir ? 


No—Only ignorant people or incapable people may doa 
propaganda that it is numerology. Not at all. it is pure, 
genume Astrology. 

Suppose I give number 74 within | and 249 and the query 
ts yodged at Deth: at 7-30 A.M.. 1.S.T.. how to proceed. 


By 74 it is meant that Moon sign Cancer, Saturn star Pushya 
and 14° S¥ and 20° ruled by Jupiter is the commencemen: of 
the lagna (Ascendant ) 


- we have to find out the cusps of the other 
houses *, 


* Will not the cusps vary from one place to the other 7” 


* All places in the same latitude will bave the same cusps 
even though ther longitude may be different. Therefore one i» 
to pote the lautude of the place of judgment and not the place 
from which the query » put ™. 


** So, we have to take tbe latitude of Delhi“. 


Yes. it = for Deths we have to sec. The latitude is 28° 38 
North. 


Which table of Houses do you recommend to refer ? 


Till the table of HOUSES prepared by me comes out, one 
should refer only the Raphael's Table of Houses and not any- 
thang else ; we should avoid calculations. [Jt is not uncommon 
that be who claims to be good in Higher Mathematics fails 
muserably in Elementary Mathematics. One maz be M.A. yet 
be can err. Therefore, as far as possible, avoid calculations 
whea ready cefercoce Table is available. So refer to Raphael's 
Tabte and when mine is released refer to mme™. 


"Sie, the table of houses is in Sayana position. bs it 
not 7” 


Yes. So you have to noes the ayanames on the day of 
judgment ™. 
Which syenamea am | to follow? 


FoUow Krishnamurti Ayanamsa alone. Forget all others. 
When Krishnamert Ayanamss = used and by using the sab- 
division of a comstellauon you come correct in minute details, 
it goes withcot saying thet the other syanameas are an0t to 
be followed. capecially f ®@ vanes by degreca? Follow oaly 
mine. 


What = the Ayanamss now ? 


23 degrees 20 minutes. So you add this figure to the aira- 
yana pouton you got for the number you gave, ic 74. Heace 
adi 23° 20° w 14° $3° 20°. Then the Sayama postion of the 
lagna would be & 13 WW’. Ture over the page where the 
cusps of vanous house: are given for Delbs latitude. Thea you 
will get that Virgo 9 32 15 the second cusp. Libra 8° 37 is 
the thurd cusp. fourth will be 10° 32° Scormo; fifth will be 
13° 32° Sagittartus; sixth will be 15° 32 Capricom and the 
uther 6 cusps are 180 degrees opposite to these. 


Now we have got thc Sayana pomtion of the 12 cusps. 
Deduct the Ayanamas and convert then to Nirayeaa The fol- 
lowing figure is the map for the query and heresfter we have to 
note down the position of the planets 

For which time are we to note the position of the plansts ? 
If you yudge a chart mmedutely after calculation, then you 
have to note the position of the planets at which you started 
vasting of the horoscope for judgmem. Cusps for each aumber 
can be done and kept as a ready reckoner. You may keep a ready 
reckoner for any single locahty for cvery number between | and 
+49 if you ever stay there. One may note the position of the 
planets and in cootinuation judge. That ume alone should be 
taken for the position of the planets. 


Then are we to nots for 7-30 AM. LST.ser are we to 
comvert the tiene to L.M_T. 7 


_ “tis only to find the cusps of tbe houses one fe to find out 
the time in LMT. But to calculate the postion of the planets 
you have to take the Indian Standard ume. Bocause tbe position 
of tbe ptancts in Raphaci Ephemeris are Yor 12 noosa 

That is why I have given in my Ephemeris the position of 
the plancts for 5-30 P.M. IST. I could Bave given the 
position of the plancts for 12 noon J.S.T. Bet you cannot 
vernfy casity with that of Western Ephemeris and confirm 
that mine gives exactly the same position and is correct. 
So one can work with confidence Doutt should never be 
there. Therefore you calculste and insert im tho map after 
Geductag ayanames from the figures obtained. Then the 
following 1s the horoscope for judgment : 





"X 19-92 Xi 20-12 | XI) 22-82 
| ae este | 
20-36 Moon | 
ieee a 
ae a the 
vit 
: vat 
} 14-33-29 - ee 
6-H} 
| 
Mare 
| Vi M12! 1614 SY 37-92 14-89 
| V @i2 isa 











10< 


Sun aed Moon ever direct, never retrograde. Raku ond 
Kethu move in opposite direction: they never retrace, their 
pathway and movement are steady in its own direction: hence 
treat Raku and Kethu as never retrograde The other planets 
alone can be either direct or retrograde This is applicable to 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati. 


Thus J used to pove such questions. erect the horoscopes 
for the moment at which the matter was given, allow the time 
lo pass and noted down the time when cuactly the matter materia- 
lised. Calculated and found out the ascendant rising then and also 
the cusp of houses sugnfying the matter, cave correct indication. 

Thus, on minor events research was done on hundreds and 
hundreds of occasiom, and WHEN EVERY QUESTION HAD 
COME VERY CORRECT, it gave the mental strength to pro- 
ceed further and apply to major prodkias. in Astrology, 
whether the probicm 1s a minor onc of a major one, the prince- 
plc remains the xame | Using one’s commonense one should 
preoced scocntifically. 

This 2 the way how # started reauch un Horarv Astrology 
ufter deciding that I should take the number hetecen | and 249. 

Whenever there was nonce lo mention a numbcr and the 
yucsion pertained to me, | ued tc open a nok of 400 pages and 
then sec thy number of Une page printed of. the nght ude of the 
hook. ft worked out for that number. ctacted 2 horucope. 
posed myx some quastion and read vut th results This 
worked vul very satisfactory. If. by chance, the number of the 
page which J noted down was above 249, the matter which | 
thought of, never matenalised. Decisun of God ts hnown at 
nace. J never divided by 249 

For example, (1) | want to mect a (rend of mine Teo find 
cut whether he is in the headquarters, 0 that J could meet him, 
for some favow. Lutd to oncen a book and whenever the 
number was above 249, I tuund erther he had gone overseas or 

he was in Delhi to attend some conference. 

(2) On occasions when | tned for reservation of a berth, 
on @ particular date. and whcn such a number beyond 249 was 
hoted, in spite of all my influence, it was impossible to reserve 


ove berth. Thus in matiers where it could be immediately verified, 
I found that if anybody were to grve a number beyond 249; then 
owe can mnamedisiely say that the consultant cannot have his 
desire fulfilled without taking further pains for calculation, etc. 


Agam. to fad out the method whether « is the right side 
on left sade of one’s body 1s affected, right leg or left leg frac 
tured: mght hand or left hand amputated, etc., I used to pul 
two drops of honey on the floor and I used to observe the flies 
tastiag the honey | uted to open 8 hook, note the number. 
1 found sub-tord of the 6tb gave cluc. The fly whuch was either 
oa the nght or the left, firs: flew away, 7th house shows flies; 
They, to fy away means 12 to 7, 1.¢., 6th house. When | came 
very correct, I began to find out which side of the body of a 
perton (whether the right sede of left ade) +s affeciod. 1 noted 
the suenbes from a book and took Gh bouse indscating defect to 
the comsukant. [ did ciperiment on the numbers given by the 
persoat ashe whee )icok INh cum Siace honest attempts 
were made by mc. | used ty ash my [ricnd lo sit along with mc 
and face the same directua, obecrving the fie. fund w 
predict in advance aad on all accasions Jcame correct. But 
ff} would have boca othcrwie hike a very few (which nm not to 
be ruled out) then TI would have artod the fmend to ston the 
opposte wide. facing me. Without amy working. | could say 
that the My in the left will leave Greet. tf that wtech flew away 
18 beft to me | will te!) him ‘See. | am correct.” And if that fly 
which won the mght to mc. gnes away first, | will tell him, “* You 
see, | am cosrect”. you are tbc consultam ; you have to observe 
that which was in the left to you. had gone away, firss Thus ibe 
dushonest person can tutst, but Krishnamurti Podhdhati is only 
for one answer and there is no room to twist. The answer is 
mvariably correct. whatever be m the mind of the consultant If | 
sad that which was un hss left would fly. even if he had in his mind 
the night onc KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI never failed. 

Oac of che greatest achicvemenots 5 the suc.es 10 fi 
out that the Ruling planets reveal the truth and guides one ‘0 
correctly predict. has truth was never expounded by Hindu 
sages os Western savant. 


Twelve signs of the zodiac 
Classification and Influence 


Classification 


Positive and Negative; Northern & Southern; Equinoctial, 
Tropical; Fiery, Earthy, Airy & Watery; Movable, Fixed 
& Common ; Fruitful or barren ; Mute ; Violent; Human ; Voice: 
Bestial or Four-legged ; Dual; Bicorporeal or double bodied; 
and short as well as long ascension signs. 


Positive and Negative Signs: The odd signs, namely, 
Aries, Gemini, Leo, Libra, Sagittarius and Aquarius are positive 
or (Masculine); the even signs, viz, Taurus, Cancer, Virgo, 
scorpio, Capricorn and Pisces are negative (or Feminine). 


The positive signs: Assertive, bold, expressive, active, 
offensive, determined, more self-expressive. 


The negative signs: Passive, receptive, defensive, more 
self-repressive. 


Northern and Southern signs: Aries to Virgo are called 
Northern signs; Remaining six signs (Libra to Pisces) are sou- 
thern signs. 


Equinoctial signs: Aries and Libra are two equinoctial 
Signs. 


Tropical signs: Cancer and Capricorn are the two tropi- 
cal Signs. 


Fiery, Earthy. Airy and Watery signs : 


Fiery: — Aries, Leo, Sagittarius ; 
Earthy — Taurus, Virgo, Capricorn; 
Airy — Gemini, Libra, Aquarius; 
Watery — Cancer, Scorpio, Pisces. 


Fiery signs: Assertive, independent, courageous and 
enthusiastic. Activity and ambition, vigour and vitality, energy 
and push. 


Earthy signs: Stability, material welfare, wealth, power, 
position, health, cautious, premeditative, prudent and prac- 
tical ; secretive and auspicious; stubborn and self-protective ; 


108 


Slow and steady ; reserved and restrained ; methodical and 
economical; plodding and perservering. 


Airy signs: Cheerful, gentie, amiable, courteous, sympa- 
thetic, refined, humane. Good intellect, fertile imagination, 
idealistic and artistic, well-informed, fertile. Musical, level- 
headed and tactful. 


Watery signs : Fertile imagination ; constitution—weak ; 
timid, inert and unwilling to act. Receptive, contemplative, 
sensitive, sentimental and psychic. 


QUALITIES: Moveable, fixed and Common signs’. Aries 
Cancer, Libra and Capricorn are movable signs. Taurus, Leo, 
scorpio and Aquarius are fixed ones. Gemini, Virgo, Sagitta- 
rius and Pisces are common signs. 


Movable signs : Enterprise, enthusiasm, love of ambition, 
forcefulness, and go-a-head spirit; fame, recognition and popu- 
larity : loves changes and reform. 

Fixed signs; Stamina and persistence in action. Very 


strong: and determined will. Keep on working, patience and 
persistence ; practical; firm. 


Common (dual, mutable) signs: Dual, fluctuating, flexi- 
bility, plasticity, intellectual, sympathetical sensitive, subtle, 
versatile, changeful, inconstant, indecisive, vacillating and restless. 


Fruitful signs show success: realisation of ambition: 
Cancer, Scorpio and Pisces—fruitful. 


Taurus, Libra, Capricorn and Sagittarius—semi-fruitful. 


Barren signs : Attempts not successful; No desired results: 
Aries, Gemini, Leo and Virgo are called barren or sterile signs. 
These are not fruitful. ' 


Mute signs: Cancer, Scorpioand Pisces are mute Signs. 


Violent signs : Aries, Scorpio—Violent signs, “no fears” 
They undertake all enterprises with courage and confidence. 


Human signs: Gemini, Virgo, Aquarius and the 1st half 
of Sagittarius. Libra—Humane. 


Voice signs: Gemini, Libra, Aquarius. 


109 


Western authors—Virgo, Sagittarius and Taurus also. 


Bestial signs : 4 legged: Arles. Taurus, Leo, Capricorn, 
2nd half of Sagittarius. 


Dual signs : Gemini, Sagittarius and Plsces- 


Bicorporeal or double-bodied signs : Gemini, 1st half of 
Sagittarius and Pisces. 


signs of short ascension: Capricorn to Gemini both 
inclusive : 90° on both sides of Vernal equinox. 


signs of long ascension : Cancer to Sagittarius both 
inclusive ; 90° on both sides of autumnal Equinox. 


HOW TO JUDGE ? 


Physical appearance: (If the lord of the constellation in 
which the sub-lord of the ascendant is posited in) 


Aries: Middle stature; lean, muscular; neither stout 
nor thick ; ruddy complexion ; long neck and face ; broad head, 
bushy eyebrows ; wiry hair. 


Taurus : Middle stature ‘ plumpy body broad forehead! 
thick neck bright eyes; dark hair good complexion; well 
built, big shoulders, well-developed muscles. 


Gemini: Tall, upright; straight body ; long hands ; thin 
legs; moderate complexion ; sharp eyes; long nose : 


Cancer: Clumsy body; upper body barge; in; age big 
abdomen ; wide nose ; large mouth; brown hair ; pale comple- 
xion. 


Leo: Well-developed appearance; broad _ shoulders; 
broad forehead: Tall, well-built, muscular; full stature ; majes- 
tic appearance. 


' irgo : Slender body ; tall, dark hair ; and eyes ; curved 
eyebrows, profuse growth of hair ; thin voice; quick walk, 
pot-belly ; long nose. 


Libra: Tall, well-proportioned body; slender limbs; 
strong, graceful appearance; sweet smile; attractive counte- 
nance ; beautiful eyebrows ; parrotlike nose. 


no 


scorpio: Well-proportioned body ; long nose ; average 
stature; broad face; commanding appearance ; short and curly 
hair, muscular body; good personality. 


' Sagittarius: Well-proportioned, well-developed body; 
eyebrows high and bushy; long nose ; broad eyes, charming 
appearance; graceful look ; fair complexion ; beautiful. 


Capricorn: Emaciated, weak ; slow growth ; slender, lean, 
wiry ; long nose ; deep set eyes; coarse hair. In old age, hunch 
backed. 


Aquarius: Tall, full stature; oval face?; fair complexion; 
handsome appearance; defective teeth; brown shady hair. 


Pisces: Short; plumpy, stout, muscular, spherical big 
eyes protruding, soft hair, silky. 


CHARACTERISTICS: 


(lf the lord of the constellation in which the sub-lord of the 
ascendant is posited in):— 


Aries: Active, ambitious ; bold, impulsive, rash, aggres- 
sive; argumentative; confidence, courage; high aim; ever 
enterprising ; dislikes subordination ; quick action ; unbounded 
confidence; executive ability; uncompromising § spirit, mind 
pregnant with ideas ; no self-sacrifice ; fretful and boisterous ; 
over optimistic; over-trade; fanatic; bold, foolhardiness; 
demonstrative ; passionate; proud ; hasty, quarrelsome. 


Taurus : Endurance ; Patience; never forget, nor forgive ; 
unrelenting ; slow, steady ; perseverance ; patience ; persis- 
tence ; conservative ; lazy : self-confidence ; deepset in tuition ; 
not verbose; stubborn ; loyal. 


Gemini: Carefree; joyous: reluctant; versatile; restless; 
changeful; adaptability; intelligent; adviser ; fond of travel: 
indecisive; ever contemplating; insight waywardness, fickleness; 
generous ; or niggardly, no rule, no habit; quick grasp ; much 
retentive power ; good reproductive ability. 


Cancer: Changeability, timid; fertile imagination, emo- 
tional, sympathetic; over-sensitive; talkative; nervous irritabh 


llty; brave In mental attitude; short temper; tenacious memory; 
diplomatic, discreet, conventional; loyal; impatient; very selfish. 


Leo: Noble, large hearted, magnanimous, generous, 
furious, humanitarian, no evil thought, dignity, faith, less of talk, 
observes silence, likes flattery, enthusiastic, sports, speculation. 


Virgo: Ever changeful, commercial instinct, very brisk, 
very quick ; thorough, methodical sensible, rational practical, 
discriminative, critical, self-pity, saves money, prudent, over- 
careful, proper, orderly, fond of horticulture, gardening, 
medicine, food, hygiene. 


Libra: Level headed, mental equilibrium, dispassionate, 
.compares and contracts, constructive critics foregoes, personal 
comforts, painstaking, helps others, popular, politicians, fertile 
imagination, correct intuition brilliant, Intellect, admirable 
refinement, pleasant nature, gentle and affectionate, easy-going, 
shrewd, persuasive, fond of opposite sex. 


scorpio: Very clever, hard working, overcritical, 
determined, never ideal, never mindful of obstacles, good 
imagination, sharp intelligence, intense’ feeling, emotion, 
good critic, resourceful, proper intuition, prompt action, 
successful bargains, self-assertion, impulsive action, independ- 
ence, excitement, likes and dislikes, gossip, non-interfering, 
frank, plain, blunt, revengeful. 


Sagittarius: Bold, courageous; pushful, ambitious, greedy, 
aspiring, optimistic, never timid, dauntless, self-confidence, 
energy, enthusiasm, vigour, vitality, true, honest, sincere, 
God-fearing. 


Capricorn : Economical, prudent, reasonable ; thoughtful, 
practical minded, methodical, plodding, persevering, patiently 
working, quick execution, careful decision, confidence, toler- 
ance, steady, reserved, fear of redicule, chooses friends, honest, 
sincere, reliable or conceited ; dishonest, selfish, greedy, miserly, 
criminal, underhand dealings. 


Aquarius: Intelligent, careful and cautious, watchful and 
thoughtful, intelligent, slow in grasp, strong memory, broad 


112 


out-look human understanding, outspoken, unselfish, humane, 
impersonal, social/silent worker, new thoughts, fresh Ideas, 
research mind, steady and stubborn, inclination to science. 


Pisces: Philosophical results, dreamy, contemplating, 
imagining, honest, outspoken, helpful, humane, forego, forgive 
and forget, unassuming, over-liberal, unbounded generosity, con- 
tradiction, in nature, sweet temper, social inclined. 


HEALTH AND DISEASE 


(If the sub-lord of the 6th cusp is deposited in the constella- 
tion of the planet deposited in): 


Aries: Good health, enough immunity, fond of sports, 
energetic. 


Headaches, burns, inflammatory diseases, affection of the 
brain, neuralgia, coma, high fever, colic pains,paralysis, apo- 
plexy, pimples, insomnia, ringworms, migraine, smallpox, 
malaria, affection of the brain, thrombosis. 


Taurus: Robust health, never deficiency, slow recovery, 
tonsils, diptheria, pyorrhoea, throat, palate, neck, cold, apo- 
plexy, constipation, plethora, pimples and eyesore. 


Gemini: Delicate health, strain, overtaxing, thereby ill- 
health, lungs, cold, running of the nose, influenza, Eosonophilia, 
pleurisy, Bronchitis, T.B. shoulders and arms affected. 


Cancer i Fragile lungs, flu, cough, asthma, bronchitis, 
pleurisy, T.B. stomach upset, dyspepsia, flatulence, dropsy, beri- 
beri, nervous debility, fear complex, hysteria, jaundice, obstruc- 
tion of the bile, gall stone, boils on the chest. 


Leo: Good constitution, quick recovery. 


Heart disease, palgitation, spinal meningitis, syncope, 
locomotor ataxia, inflammations, sunstroke, giddiness, pestilence, 
Epilepsy, rheumatic fever. 


Virgo: Good health, very active, careful about diet, 
abdomen. Hypochondria, chylifactive, typhoid, bowels, mab 
nutrition, tapeworm, intestinal disease. 


113 
a eT 
Libra: Normal health, susceptible for infectious disease, 
prophylactic measures needed. 


Kidneys, loins, spines affected, uterus removal, appcndi- 
citis, Lumbago, Polyria, Hernia. 


Scorpio: Good health, quick recovery, generative organs, 
' the bladder, womb, ovaries, prostate gland, venereal distemper, 
renal stone, gravel Adenoids, Polypi, Piles. 


Sagittarius: Good health, quick recovery, Sciatica, 
rheumatic pain, fracture in the hip, lumbago, gout, eosonophilia, 
lung trouble, fracture of the bones, diabetes, affection of lungs, 
hiccough, asthma. 


Capricorn: Leprosy, Erysipelas, Rheumatism, gout, 
indigestion, cold, melancholia, neuralgia, knees and petalla bones 
| fracture, urticaria, skin disease, eczema, dislocation.., 


Aquarius: Below normal health, tooth trouble, tonsils, 
heart trouble, rheumatic pains, skin'disease, elephantiasis, eczema, 
eye-trouble, blood-pressure, insomnia, unrated gum. 


Pisces: Moderate health, addicted to drinks, affection of 
the ankle, feet, dropsy, varicose veins, intestinal trouble, 
perspiration of the feet, typhoid, over-dose of medicine, corns, 
piles, deformities, T.B., deficiency of enzymes, hernia, deafness. 


! FINANCE AND FORTUNE ' 


(If the sub-lord of the second cusp is deposited in the con- 
stellation of the planet situated in) : 


-| Aries: Can earn much, ’ spend much, ' impulsive 
| purchases, rash investments, think of today, never of tomorrow, 
( start in a flash, end in a crash, act first, soeak next, think last. 


Taurus: Hoards money,, accumulates wealth, cautious 
spending, always keeps reserve, never risks in money matters, 
never squander, care for material status, invest on estates, agri- 
cultural lands, practically builds fortune steadily. 


g Gemini: Either fortune or misfortune, family disputes, 
' self-destruction and of changes, secret love affairs, detrimental. 


114 


Cancer: Commercial career, trade, caterer, shops, stalls, 
nurses, careful expenses, prudent, saves by hard labour, accumu- 
lates wealth. 


Leo: High position, deals big issues, spend-thrift, faces 
hard times, in youth lucky, gambles, speculates, cverliberal. 


Virgo: Commercial instinct, careful about money, knows 
value of money, self-made, works hard, money accumulates, 
Investment nor profitable. 


Libra: Business with partners, advisers, critics, story 
writers, able salesman, spend-thrift. 


scorpio: Impulsive purchases, extravagant expenses, 
makes large money, and spends much of it, no mind to save 
maximum, but fortune favours. 


Sagittarius: Earns by fair means, no black money, 
satisfactory earnings, speculation not useful, false prestige, 
spends much. 


Capricorn: Conservative, gains, fame and money 
resourceful, concentration, no speculation, invest on permanent 
position, industrious, Saves money, no waste, no rest. 


Aquarius : Makes money, inventions, discoveries, patiently 
saving, neither economical, nor extravagant. 


Pisces: Very happy, helpful to others, interested in music, 
films, spends thereby, good business ability, keeps money safe, 
permanent service, successful politician. 


ROMANCE (LOVE AFFAIRS): 


lf the sub-lord of the fifth cusp is deposited in the 
constellation of the planet, signifying the fifth house matter, 
situated in:— 


Aries: Frank ; ~~ enthusiastic; charming; — practical: 
freedom, adventure in love, ever-lasting affection, but dominant, 
nature, independent, or proud. 


115 


Taurus: Loyal, true, faces an opposition, self-control 
needed, lucky, steady. 


Gemini: Quick friendship, critics, finding fault with, no 
satisfaction, prefers variety, baffles others, controls, mixes with 
intellectuals, more romance-more happy, difficulty to understand. 


Cancer: .No romance means no life to them, will sacrifice 
comforts, loyal and affectionate, sincere and true, yet fickle 
minded. 


Leo: Romantic, deep love, keeps partner cheerful, ideal 
lover, very passionate, attracts \>thers, proud of family. 


Virgo: Own ideals, so difficult, long delay to choose one, 
cares work, perfection, values the intellectuals, shy, touchy, finds 
fault with others. 


Libra: Most lovable, experts in love affairs, sincere, 
present conversationalists, enjoys in full, satisfies. 


scorpio: Complex mood, energetic, dynamic, lacking 
sympathy, unsteady, expects appreciation from partner, gives 
comforts, and keeps in good cheer. 


Sagittarius: Temper flares up, interest in games, society, 
family life not so important, person of integrity, and morals, 
allows freedom to wife. 


Capricorn: Affectionate, but never gives’ expression, 
emotional, slow and cautious in selection, never bold and rash, 
Wait for the consent of the other, true and faithful. 


Aquarius: Intelligent, prefers- educated partner, strong 
attachment, permanent one, unassuming, free, and social, sympa- 
thetic, and accommodative. 


Pisces: Prefers beautiful partner, also intellectual, fond 
of fine arts, Suspicious nature, dreams much, gets delayed, slow 
development. 


(lf the sub-lord of the 7th cusp is in a constellation, the 
lord of which is tenanted in Aries etc., the above results are to 
be given.) 


116 
WHAT THE TWELVE HOUSES SIGNIFY ? 


Lagna (First Bhava): Physical stature, colour, form and 
shape, constitution, health, vitality and vigour, habit of 
thinking, natural disposition and tendencies, personality and 
struggle for life, success or failure in attempts. General candour, 
honour, dignity, prosperity, general well-being. Head and upper 
part of the face. People in the country, person asking the 
question. Virtues, longevity, age, suffering. Appropriating 
other's money, gambling on other's money, skin Gains and 
profit to younger brother. Name, fame, reputation and the 
patrimony of mother. Higher studies, long journey, life in a 
foreign place or connection with strangers to native’s children ; 
hostel, danger to maternal uncle, demise of partner, speculation 
of father, neighbours to elder brother and his short journeys. 


Second house: Money matters, fortune, profit, gain or loss, 
one’s power and resources, wordly attainments possessions of 
extrinsic value, jewellery, precious stones and metals, documents, 
bonds, securities, stocks and shares, promissory notes, mortgages, 
bank balance or negotiable or exchangeable assets. 


Ablilty to express his thoughts. Second marriage, vision 
or the power of observation, right eye, memory, imagination, 
nail, tongue, nose, teeth, cheeks and chin. 


Protects others, family members, law suits, extravagant or 
economical, loans, money lent, money borrowed, death of indi- 
vidual, national wealth, banking activities, revenue. 


Money of the querist, truth or falsehood, tongue, eyes, nails, 
garment, copper, diamond, gem, pearl, trade, softness of speech, 
perfume to support others, effort in acquisition of wealth, mis- 
erliness or liberality, oratorical ability, gold, good silver, corn, 
cereals, close dependent, pearls, ruby, minerals, clothes. 


Loss to younger brother and his changes, mother’s gains, 
profession and success of children, rank, position, long journey” 
to maternal uncle, danger to paitner, share of profits to partner,! 
common disease of the native’s father, purchase of a house, or 
land or vehicle by elder brother. 


117 


Third house : Mental inclination, ability, memory, intellect, 
inclination to study. 


Courage, firmness, valour, prowess and heroism. Younger 
brother or sister, cousins, kindred, casual acquaintance, neigh- 
bour, short travel, cycle, bus, tram, or railway. Correspon- 
dence letter, papers, writings, accounting, mathematics, communi- 
cation, post offices, letter boxes, telephone, telegraph, teleprint, 
television, tele-communication, radio-reports, signal, airmail, 
mediator, messenger, “publicity officer, reporter, editor, informa- 
tionofficer, Journalist. Change of residence, restlessness, Library, 
book-store, bargain, signature, signing contracts or agreements, 
rumours, carrying tales., 





Hands, throat, shoulder blade, collar bone, arms and 
nervous system. 


Neighbouring countries, treaties, Roadside place, confusion 
of the mind, eating unspoiled or pure food, partition of property, 
female servant, Edible roots and fruits. 


Fourth house: Mother, one’s home, residence, domestic 
environments, grave, private affairs, curious, secrets and secret 
life. Vehicles, fields, pastures, com-fields, farms, orchards, 
mines, real estate, gardens, buildings, ancient dwellings, monu- 
ments and antiquities. Hereditary properties and treasures. 
School and collegiate. Mines, gardens, public buildings, crops, 
agriculture, Learning, boats, oil bath, small well, water, milk, 
trust, false allegation, tent, pavilion, pond, mansion, art, entrance 
into a house, celestial food, where stolen property is kept, vedic 
and secret texts. Herbs and caves. 


Fifth bouse: Progeny, inclinations, pleasure; society, with 
tastes and fancies, artistic talents and gains, to wife or business 
partner's luck, recreation, entertainment, amusement, sports, 
romance and similar interests, games, cinema opera, drama, music, 
dance, banquets, merriment and amusements. Cards, crossword 
puzzles, dice, horse, shares. Lottery, gambling or betting and 
stock exchange. Love affairs, courtship and licentiousness, 
kidnap, rape. Envoys, ambassadors, banquets. Good morals, 


118 


mechanical art, discretion, discrimination between virtue and sin 
chanting of vedic hymns, religious mindedness, profound learn- 
ing and wisdom, enormous riches, festive occasion, interne 
satisfaction, liasions with courtesans. Chanting of mantras and 
spiritual practice. 


Sixth house: “House of sickness*. Disease, nursing 
food, dietary habits, service exhaustion, employees, subordinates 
or servants, debt or borrowing pet animals, small cattle, tenants, 
enmity, dress, and hygiene, sanitation, herbs, food and 
clothing. Favourable result in competition. Obstacle in any 
undertaking, maternal uncle, insanity, enmity, miserliness, intense 
anguish, incessant eye trouble, untimely meals, theft, calamity, 
prison house. Industries, sanitation and public health. Purchase 
or sale of conveyance, by younger brother or sister, short 
journeys of the mother, the bank position and profession of the 
first issue, and his family, loss to the partner, investment or 
purchases made by the partner, the secret enemies of the partner, 
separation from the partner. Occupation or business of the 
father. Danger to one's elder brother. 





Seventh house: “House of the union or earthy ties’, legal 
bondage, partner in trade, those with whom the native transacts, 
litigation, duels. Mix up freely in society. Fines, divorces, 
legal bondage, contracts, break of journey. Influence in foreign 
countries, honour and reputation achieved there, danger to 
longevity. Recovery of lost property, describes the thief, 
international relationships, arbitrations, war and foreign affairs, 
international trade, public meetings, open warfare. Self-acquisi- 
tion of the natives servant, mother’s immovable property 
vehicle, adopted child. Secret enemys danger, difficulties, 
death, associates and friends of father, partnership with his 
father's friend. ° 


Eighth house: Longevity or span of life. “House of 
death’, inheritance, legacies, wills, Insurance, gratuity, dis- 
incamation, death—natural or unnatural, drowning, fire, accident 
or suicide. Mystery and misery, misfortune, sorrow and strife, 
worries and privations, delay and dejection, disappointment and 


119 


defeat, loss and obstruction, blame and ill-repute, accident, 
danger from enemies. Wrong actions, crossing river, theft, 
robbery, siege of a fort, fighting. Dowry, unearned wealth, 
share of profit. Surgeons, medical officers, health inspectors, 
slaughter houses, butchers, corners and so on. Public mortality 
the death rate, suicide, serious accidents, infection, flood, fire, 
famines, disease, earthquake, .national calamity or grief, financial 
relation with foreign countries, the nation’s exports and imports 
debts due to foreign countries, surrender or loss, territory of 
another country, public loans, debts and interest rates, deficit 
budget, estate duties and public sales. Insurance, money of the 
deceased. Difficulties in journey, sufferings caused by enemies, 
corruption, mother may gain by way of lottery, prize bond or 
in speculation. 


Ninth house: Faith, wisdom and divine worship, fortune, 
philosophy, religious and philosophical beliefs, devoted, ortho- 
dox, methodical meditation intuition and _ forethought, 
temples, churches, mosques, spiritual welfare, pilgrimage to 
holy places, circular reservoirs, sacrifices and charity, research, 
invention, discovery, exploration, the father-spiritual-preceptor: 
or guru of the children. Law, legal arbitration, teaching, 
dharma, dreams and visions, communications with spirits, long 
joummeys, sea voyage, air travel. 


Publishing books of intrinsic value, international affairs, 
reverence and devotion to God, communication, sea voyage, 
shipping, air and land travel, legal departments, matters relating 
to religion, temples, churches, science, Universities, emigration 
and immigration, import and export of the nation, national trade, 
shortwave radio, long-distance communications, cables and 
wireless. 


Charity, visits, to holy places, vedic sacrifice, purity of 
mind, penance, good conduct, mythology, horses, elephants, 
buffaloes, coronation hall, circulation of money. 


Wells, lakes, tanks, water-sheds, temples, monetary vows, 
pilgrimage. Short travels of the wife, servant’s vehicle and 
landed property, child’s speculative benefits and pleasures, 


110' 


mother’s illness, younger brother's wife, friends to the elder 
brother. 


Tenth house : Lordship, honour, dignity and public esteem, 
name and fame, power and prestige, credit and ‘conduct, success 
and status, rank and renown, respect and reputation, ambition 
and authority Worldly activities, responsibilities. 


Permanency promotion, advancement, appointment Pro- 
fession occupation or business “Karmasthana’. Last rites, to 
one's parents, religious functions, employer, superior, master, 
judge and the Government. 


Pilgrimage to holy places, Honour from Government, 
honourable living, permanance, pre-eminance, seal of authority, 
horse riding, athletics, service, sacrifice and the like, agriculture, 
doctor, name, fame, depositing treasure, talisman, morality, 
medicine, thigh, prosperity, adopted son, teaching, intellectual 
command mantras. 


Rain, retirement from the world, one’s valour, prowess 
learning and fame, substances taken away by the thieves, judges, 
stewards, president in the race clubs, aristocracy of the owners 
of the horses and the trainers. Head of the State, national 
leaders, national trade, father’s self-acquisition, maraka house to 
both father and mother permanent possessions or conveyance 
of the business, or married partner, pleasurable pursuits of 
servants, ill-health to children, debts incurred by them, litigation, 
election, Danger to younger brother, mother’s opponents, loss 
and secret inimical activities to one’s elder brother. 


Eleventh house: House of friends, society community, 
favourites, flatterers, admirers, associates, advisers, adherents, 
supporters, well-wishers, close acquaintances, hopes, wishes and 
aspirations and their realisation. Success in all undertakings, 
foreign collaboration, election, litigation, speculation, writings, 
health. Profit, incoming wealth. 


Principal and interest, pleasure, prosperity, profit, progress 
in attempts, peace after achievement of aspirations, partnership 


121 


and permanent tie of friendship, reformative, unconventional 
activities. Elder brother, cure of the disease, “Trusts”. 


Left ear, the right foot, the left hand and the two shanks, 
prosperity and wealth. One’s influence, eldest brother, paternal 
uncle., devotion to God, luck, easy gains, brother-in-law, mothers 
longevity, the knee, happy news, ministership, dawn of fortune. 


Bhadhakasthana for persons born in movable sign. Know- 
ledge, income, horses, elephants, vehicle, chariots, furniture, 
ornaments, swinging cradles, decoration, sovereign, money, son- 
in-law, daughter-in-law. 


Jewels, parliament or equivalent legislative branches, Lok 
Sabha, Lower House of State Assemblies, Corporations, Munici- 
pal Bodies, District Boards, Panchayats. 


Goverment policies and planning, international friendships 
and exchange of amenities, companies, stores associations, 
societies, in horse racing the committee under the control of the 
stewards. Number of the winner is shown by this house. 


Government loans, electric companies, gas, museum, 
agriculture, estate, irrigation, silk. Hopes and desires, father’s 
short journeys, gains through correspondence, birth of children, 
partner’s pleasurable pursuits, speculation. Recovery from ill- 
health and victory over enemies. Children’s competitors, danger, 
younger brother, long journeys, Freedom from misery and’ pain, 
discharge from hospital. 


Twelfth house: Loss and impediments restraint and 
limitation, waste and extravagance, expenses, drudgery and 
deception. 


Purchases, investments, donations, charity and association 
with philanthropic institution. Separation from family and going 
to a place far away, sorrow .and sin, sedition and segregation, 
obstacles and impediments, misery and misfortune, poverty 
and persecution. Intrigue and imprisonment, secret toil of mind. 


Fear, inferiority complex, solitude, secret, silent suffering 
and self undoing. Greatest self-sacrifice, unselfish deeds, 


122 


seclusion and social barriers, limitations and_ restrictions, 
unseerf or unexpected troubles. 


Secret plots and schemes, conspiracy and cunningness, envy 
and malice, fraud and treachery, intrigue and deception and 
suicide, murder or assassination. Exile and extradition, secrecy, 
mystery, mediumship, psychic research, occult investigations, 
detective work, confinement in hospital, nefarious scheme, decep- 
tion, fraud, scandal, disgrace and secret sorrows. 


Success through occult affairs, invention of chemical 
processes, danger from animals, disgrace, laborious occupations, 
bruises through animals, success in places remote from the place 
of birth and with large animals. Aid from charitable institutions. 
Banished persons, malefactors, lost goods never recovered, long 
hidden wrath, vile persons reproaches and disobedience. Hidden 
house, hidden side of life, sound sleep or not (third house show 
one's awakening from sleep), the 6th house signifies trance, the 
Oth relates to dreams, Mental pain, agitation, the feet, the left 
eye, fear from enemies, mutilation of a limb, bodily injury, 
harm, wretchedness, imprisonment, anger, termination of 
appointment. 


Comfort of bed, unexpected demands, pressure of money, 
uncommon expenses, gift, charity, donation, segregation as jails, 
asylums, invalid and the prisoner. Sanatorium and nursing home, 
Mental Hospital. 


Life in a foreign place, trials and tribulations, sorrow and 
self-undoing, arson, loot, rape, poisoning, boot-legging, smuggl- 
ing, blackmailing, the limitations and restrictions brought on the 
owners of the horses, the barring of jockey’s from riding, fraud 
and deceptive action, sedition, treason, assassination, Philan- 
thropic, charitable or reformative institutions, jails, asylums, 
crime in general, spies, underground movements, secret and 
occult societies, father’s permanent possession, vehicle, sickness 
of wife, the litigation, danger, difficulties and disappointment to 
children, long journeys to mother, younger brother's profession, 
popularity and his prosperity. 


123 
RULING PLANETS 


By ruling planets, it is meant that a particular moment is 
ruled by a few planets. That is, one is to note (1) the exact posi- 
tion of the zodiac which would be rising for that moment for 
that locality on that day, 2) the name of the day, (3) the con- 
stellation in which Moon would be passing then, (4) the sign in 
which Moon would be. 


Everyday has its lord as follows:— 


1. Sunday is ruled by Sun, 2. Monday by Moon, 3. 
Tuesday by Mars, 4 Wednesday by Mercury. 5. Thursday by 
Jupiter 6. Friday by Venus and 7 Saturday by Saturn. If Rahu or 
Kethu were to occupy a sign then Rahu and Kethu will act as an 
agent of the lord of the sign Suppose Rahu is in Aquarius or 
Capricorn then Rahu also should be taken as a ruling planet for 
Saturday or when Capricorn or Aquarius is the lagna or the sign 
in which Moon passes. Kethu in Leo will represent Sunday. If 
Kethu were to be in Cancer it indicates Mondays. Kethu in 
Gemini represents Virgo also. If Moon or Lagna is in Virgo, 
Kethu should be included. 


The lord of the star in which the Ascendant rises in the east. 


The lord of the sign rising in the east, ie. the lagna. If a 
planet owning two houses, rules this sign and either Rahu or 
Kethu were to be in either of the two signs, node must be 
included. The lord of the star in which Moon passes comes next. 


The lord of the sign in which Moon is at that time. This 
lord may own another sign and a node may be in either of the 
two. Node should be taken for judgment. All the above lords 
are called the Ruling planet’. 


Among these, these deposited in the constellation of a 
retrograde planet should be rejected. Those which are retro- 
grade will cause delay till it is retrograde and they will be 
fruitful, after they in direct motion reach a particular sub. 
Planets which are in the sub of those who are detrimental to the 
matters of a particular Bhava, indicate wheu the matter will fall 
through. Those which are in direct motion and which are the 


124 


significators of the matter under judgment, they give the desired 
results. 


Many instances are given how to judge and how they are 


helpful. 
I 


WHEN WILL THE TRUNK-CALL MATERIALISE? 


Consider the houses 3, 9 and 11. Take the sub-lord of the 
11th cusp and find out whether the lord of the constellation in 
which the sub-lord is deposited, is not retrograde. If it were to 
be retrograde, no purpose will be served by that call. If the lord 
of the constellation in which third cusp sub-lord is deposited is 
retrograde, the call will not materialise. If the sub-lord of the 
9th cusp is retrograde, the other party cannot be contacted. But 
if they are in direct motion find out the significators of the houses 
3, 9 and 11 as it will materialise. 


Since the call is to materialise in minutes or in hours one 
need not work out dasa balance, one has to note only the move- 
ment of the ascendant and calculate when the ascendant will 
come to the position in the zodiac which is governed by the 
ruling planets and also the significators of the houses 3, 9 


and 11. 


A planet which is the significator of 3 should also be the 
significators of 9 or 11. Similarly the significator of 9 also 
should be the significator of 3 or 11. The significator of 11 should 
be the significator of 3 or 9. Such of the significators alone must 
be taken. If a planet is not the significator of 9 and 11 but is 
the significator of 6 or 8 or 12, one can take it that, that parti- 
cular planet is not the significator for this trunk-call, even 
though it is the significator of the third house. Similarly if a 
planet is the significator. of the 9 and it is also the significator 
of 6 or 8 or 12, and is not the significator of 3 or 11, then the 
party in the other end will be absent, only when significator of 
the 9th is also a significator or either 3 or 11, then alone he will 
answer the call. If a planet is the significator of the 11th 
house and not.ihe significator of 3 or 9, but is the significator of 
other houses reject this planet. Select those planets which are 


125 


the significator of the 11th house and also the significator of 3 or 
9 or both 


On 2 -9-69. a telephone trunk call to Kandy was booked 
at 9-00 A.M. As i’ was an urgent call and Kandy was about 16 
miles away from Matale. 

















| Sat. 
VI 15° 55% 14° 48” ieee IX 16° 55! I expected the trunk call 
VIT 20° 22’ within an hour or two if 
eee —_! .~—stthe: =oclline §=6is) in” order. 
| Rahv Before I could get the 
are X 16°55’ call I worked out the 
i ‘* vee 3 
9-00 A.M. time of fructification of 
a 4 249-1909 | Venus the call according to 
IV 16° 55° 4° 34! 
Moon | xT 17° 55 Krishnamurti Padh- 
ee 52’ | Kethu dhati. 
is poe hee Time of judgment: 
Sun 4° 38’ eae 
IIE 16° 55° Jup. 19°11’ 9-00 A.M; 21-1-f9; 
Mars II 18° 55’ | I 20° 22’ XII 19° 5 7° IB'N : 80) ITE 
6° 29’ | Mercury 2 
20° 15’ Lagna ; 20-22' Thula 


Ayanamsa used : 23° 20' (Krishnamurti) 
Ephemeris used: (Krishnamurti.) 


Planets Lord 1 of Constellation Lord of sub. 


Sun Sun Saturn 
Moon Sun Jupiter 
Mars Kethu Rahu 
Mercury (R) Moon Kethu 
Jupiter Moon Mercury 
Venus Kethu Moon 
Saturn (RJ Venus Venus 
Rahu Jupiter Venus 
Kethu Sun Moon 


For the fructification of telephone trunk call. houses 3 and 
11 have to be judged. 


The third house is occupied by the Moon. Mercury and 
Jupiter occupy the star of Moon. Jupiter is the lord of 3rd. 
Rahu is in Jupiter star. So the significators are Mercury. Jupiter 
and Rahu. 


J 26 


The eleventh house is occupied by Kethu, Sun and Jupiter, 


Mars and Venus are posited in the constellation ruled by Kethu. 


Moon, Sun and Kethu are in Sun’s constellation. Rahu Is in the 
star of Jupiter ; So the significators are Mars, Venus, Moon, Sun 
and Rahu. 


Now the significators that contribute to the fructification of 
the telephone trunk call are Mercury, Jupiter, Rahu, Mars, 
Venus, Moon and Sun. 


The 3rd cusp is in the star of Kethu and sub of Moon. 
The 11th cusp is in Venus star and Mars sub. 


As the sub-lords of these cusps happen to be strong signifi- 
cators, the fructification of the call is assured. 


In order to fix the significators which will rule the moment 
when the call materialises, take the rmiling planets at the time of 
judgment:— 


1. The day was Sunday whose ruler is Sun. 


2. The star in which Moon was transitting at the time 
of booking was ruled by Sun. 


3. The sign in which Moon was transitting was Makara, 
ruled by Saturn. 


4. The rising at the time of b oking was Thula., 
owned by Venus. 


5. The rising star in which lagna falls was Jupiter. 
So the ruling planets are Sun, Saturn, Venus and Jupiter. 


The common ones found among the significators are Sun, 
Jupiter and Venus. These planets conjointly indicate the time 
of fructification of the trunk call, irrespective of whether it is a 
minor or major event. As the call will be realised within a few 
minutes or hours, the transit of the lagna is to be considered. 
So 1 calculated the position of Zodiac to rise in the East. It 
can be Venus sign, Jupiter star, Sun sub, Venus sub sub. So, as 
Stated above, the rising lagna will be 29° 20' Thula. 


The correct time of fructification of trunk call was calcula- 
ted taking Nirayana lagna as 29° 20' Thula. The Ayanamsa 


127 


adopted was 23° 20'. Sidereal time for the Moon at Metale on 
this date is 11 hr. 59 mts. 52 sec. When calculated, the result 
armived at was 9-41 A.M. So I declared the trunk call will 
materialise at 9-41 A.M. only. 


As predicted the telephone trunk call came through sharp 
at 9-41 A.M. 


FRIENDS’ ARRIVAL! 


On 9th February, 1969, a certain function was arranged at 
Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan. I was to go there with my friend. 
My friend was expected to arrive before 1 P.M. I waited for 
some more time but even at 1-10, he did not come. My wife, 
being anxious to know whether he will come or not, asked me 
to predict his time of arrival. 


Immediately, I took the ruling planets as the significators, 
and calculated. I found out that my friend would surely arrive 
and it would be around 1-47 P.M. to 1-49 P.M. Why? The 


calculation is as follows :— 


The ruling planets were 
(1) The day was Sunday ; ruler was SUN 


(2) The star in which Moon was transitting at the time 
of query was Swathi; ruler was Rahu. 


(3) The sign in which Moon was transiting was Libra, 
ruled by Venus. 


(4) The lagna, rising at the time of query was Taurus 
ruled by Venus. 


(5) Rising star in which lagna falls was Moon. 
So, Ruling planet was SUN, RAHU, VENUS and MOON. 


The ruling planets indicate the nature of query and time of 
fructification of query. Lord of one in the llth house promises 
the meeting, ic., his coming. So his coming to our house is 
definite—very certain—When, is the question ? Since the matter 
relates only to minor event, which is to take place with a few 
minutes or a few hours, the transit of the lagna is to be conside- 
red and I calculated the position in the Zodiac to rise in the 


128 


East. It can be Venus sign Moon star Sun sub. So, I said 
1*55 P.M. Then my wife asked why it should not be Rahu star 
Sun or Moon sub. 


I replied “Rahu star is in Mercury sign, Mercury is not 
one of the ruling planets.” 


“Then, why not Mrigasira in Venus sign,” asked she. I 
said Mars is the lord of Mrigasira and it is not one of the ruling 
planets. Then she tried and thought loudly PunarvasU can't be 
as Jupiter is not one of the ruling planets. Pushya can’t be as 
Saturn is not one of the ruling planets. So also Alesha. Thus 
she thought one after another and said “Why can't he come 
when lagna is in Venus sign, Rahu star, Sun or Moon sub. I 
said the function is at 3 P.M Lagna can be in Venus sign Rahu 
star after 10 P.M. Where will young men go after 10 P.M. ”? 
Not to a colleague’s house. So you have no alternative. This 
is the only answer. 


Actually when my friend arrived, the lagna was _ transiting 
in the sub sub of Rahu in the sub of SUN in the star Rohini 
ruled by Moon in the sign Taurus (22° 50) governed by Venus. 
The time was a few seconds to 1-48 P.M. LS.T. 


As, invariably in all cases, without any single failure, using 
ruling planets one can decide correctly the nature of event, and 
predict precisely the moment, what can one understand. The 
Ayanamsa given out by the Editor alone is correct. If you take 
any other Ayanamsa, you will get wrong timing using ruling 
planets, judge thousands of cases. Verify then and_ there. 
Not only ruling planets are very useful to offer correct predic- 
tion, but also this proves beyond doubt that Krishnamurti 
Ayanamsa is alone very very correct and any other figure used 
is never correct. Ayanamsa or any problem is not a vexed one, 
if intelligent research workers with open mind, forgetting the 
number of years of so-called experience in wrong lines, honestly 
work. Solution comes. A boy calls that he has more than 
3 years’ experience in one particular class, say, VIII Standard. 
For the fourth year, he studies in the same class. Another 
talented boy comes and joins in that class. The longstanding 


129 


student again fails ; The new entrant scores distinction, bags 
prizes and is respected and regarded. Similarly K. P. followers 
win the appreciation of the consultants by offering uncanny 
predictions ; credit goes to my intelligent student's making correct 
calculations and honest attempts. There is nothing as Tendency. 
You may desire to have anything in a few minutes. You can 
get only at the time predicted by K.P. K P. unfolds the 
destiny correctly. 


1. When will the servant sent to the bank, return 
after cashing the cheque ? 


As the native is to receive the cash, judge the second 
house. Since he is a servant, consider the sixth house. If he 
knocks away and does not return, the 12th house will indicate. If 
he returns, it will be a reunion and also the legitimate gain of 
cash which is your desire. So include the eleventh house. 
Therefore one is to judge the houses 2, 6 and 11. This is to 
calculate on a number given or chosen and work out to find the 
time of the return of the messenger. 


When the urge is there, note the ruling planets and find out 
when that position of the Zodiac will rise in the east for that 
locality on that day, which is governed by the ruling planets. 


A cashier sent a messenger to the treasury to get the cash. 
Then messenger left the office at 11-00 A.M. on 13th December, 
1968. The day was a Friday. Star was Uthirapalguni. Rasi 
was in Virgo. The lagna fell in Aquarius. Hence the Ruling 
planets are Venus, Sun, Mercury and Saturn. 


On that day the signs which are to rise are Pisces owned by 
Jupiter, Aries governed by Mars and then Taurus, the lord of 
which is Venus. As Jupiter and Mars are not the ruling 
planets reject those signs. Then consider the sign Taurus owned 
by Venus There is no Saturn star in Taurus; no Mercury star 
in Taurus; but there is the Sun’s star, Karthik. Hence Taurus 
sign and Sun star; 0 degree Taurus to 10 degree Taurus. In 
that, we have to take the sub-lord. As Saturn is the lord of 
lagna al the time of judgement and Mercury is the lord of the 


130 


sign where Moon was, and since the lord of the lagna is stronger 
than lord of the rasi, take the sub of Saturn and sub sub of 
Mercury. That is 3° 30' must rise in the east to Madras on that 
day. After calculations it was found that the messenger would 
return exactly at 4 P.M. 


Actually he returned at 4 P. M. instead of 2 P.M. at which 
time he used to return. This calculation offers peace of mind 
to the accountant between 2 and 4 P.M, 


2. Child’s return from school 


To find out the correct time, note the mling planets at the 
time of judgment. Find out the sign which is nsing and which 
is to rise next and so on. Then that sign which is governed by 
one of the ruling planets should have the star governed by 
another ruling planet. In that you have to find out the sub-lord 
of which is one of the ruling planets. When this position in 
that sign would rise in the east, the girl will return. 


You also ask for a number to be given by the mother of the 
child. Erect the horoscope having the ascendant at the position 
as indicated by the number of the mother. Note the 11th cusp. 
If the sub-lord is deposited in the constellation of a planet in 
retrograde motion, the child will not return home. But if the 
sub-lord is in direct motion, note the significators of the 5th and 
the llth houses. Find out which position of the zodiac is 
governed by the significators. Calculate when it would rise in 
the east. That will be the time when the child will return home. 


3. Railway receipt received. Parcel not yet come, 
When? 


Note the time when the urge is there to find out the time of 
taking delivery. Immediately work out as follows. What are 
the ruling planets then? Find out the position of the zodiac, 
from the position of the Sun at the time of judgment. 


As this question suggest that it should be received in a few 
days, the motion of the Sun is to be noted. The Moon must 


131 


reach the position governed by the ruling planets conjointly 
Need not be New Moon ; 2 or 3 positions in the Zodiac are 
tuled by the same group of planets. Reject those ruling planets 
situated in the constellation of the retrograde planets Select 
those deposited in the constellation of the planets in direct 
motion. Note from the sign occupied by Moon and be proce- 
ding. When it touches that position in sign, star and sub- 
lords of these being the ruling planets tenanted in the constella- 
tion of planet in direct motion; Similarly, note the Sun’s 
position. The parcel will be received and taken delivery. 


A person may receive advice from a foreign land saying 
that th: machinery had been shipped. Yet one would like to 
know when it would be received. The above method is to be 
followed. Similarly if one wants to know the moment when 
the astronauts will return after landing in the Moon, the method 
is the same. Hence the principle remains the same. Ruling 
planets will reveal the truth. 


N B— If a matter is to be materialised in days and within 
a month you take the position of Moon and therefrom you 
calculate. But if it would take more than a month, move the 
Sun from the present position of the Sun. If the matter is to 
fructifv in some years move Jupiter from the position occupied 
by Jupiter at that time. If one asks which month I can celeb- 
rate the marriage of my daughter in that yew, Su i must reach 
the position governed by the Ruling planets. But if one a ks 
in which year one will build a house, move Jupiter. If one 
wants to know wh’n his fever will subside move Moon. If 
one wants to know when his wife would deliver and adds that 
it is the fourth month, then move the Sun. If it is the same 
month for delivery, move Moon. If expected on the same 
day, take lagna If one says that one would like to start a 
business in a few years, then move Jupiter. This is the way how 
one is to make the best and most correct method of using the 
Ruling planets. 


Also one can a'k for a number within 249 and work out- 


132 


RECEIPT OF DRUGS 


On [5-9-’69, friends at- office had gathered together at 
9-06 A.M. It was a time for ridicule and laughter as the predic- 
tion appeared to have failed. It was predicted that certain 
dangerous drugs could come on 13-9-’69 at 2-39 P.M. Predic- 
tion was given on 13-9-°69 at 1-15 P.M. K.P. was applied with 
full confidence. These drugs were expected from Colombo. 
The morning train from Colombo which brings mails andtparcels 
had come but the drugs did not come. The railway station and 
the post-office were contacted and it was a _ disappointment. 
There were no reasons to expect the drugs on this day any more 
and thus a critical situation was create. Action was taken so 
that they reach our hands atleast on 16-9-’69. 


I was worried over this prediction and I wanted to check 
up the same when I . - | a 





V 14° 58’ 
returned my home for |iy 16° 2g] ‘saturn |VI 13° 27"\VI 11°57" 
lunch. I went through 15” 03! 
my workings: and found || —*. eh 
that it gave the same Rahu fae 
result. The result is re- | 27° 46° Viens 
_ JTL 14° 587 Bee 
produced here as follows: Time: 1-15 P.M. | 24° 42 
Time of query : 1-15 |~ ~~ | Date: 13—9—'69 [Tx [4° 587 
, Sun 
P.M. Place: Matale i 13° 27° 6" 55° 
Kethu 
7"N 28' and 80° E 27° 46’ 
37') Date 13-9-’69. Moon 
Pl a5 7" 14° 27° 
Mars [XII 13° 27’| XI 14° 58’; X 16° 28’ 
Lagna for the mo- 1° 48° Jup.17° 17'} 
ment 11° 57' Dhanus. Mer. 20°54’ 





Xth Cusp to 16° 28'Kanya. Ayanamsa used 23° 20". 


Planets Lord of the Lord of Sub 
Constellation 

Sun Sun Sun 

Moon Moon Jupiter 

Mercury Moon Venus 


Venus Mercury Rahuy 


133 


Planets Lord of the Lord of SUB 
Constellation 

Mars Kethu Venus 

Jupiter Mercury Mercury 

Saturn Venus Venus 

Rahu Jupiter Venus 

Kethu Sun Moon 


The drugs arriving at the institution means reaching the 
correct destination or place. So one is to take the 4th house 
and find out the ruling planets. It is the wish of one and all 
including the patients to receive the drug in time. So include 
the 11th house. So consider the houses 4th and 11th. 


The fourth house is vacant. Jupiter is the lord of 4th and 
aspects its own house. Rahu is in the star of Jupiter. So Rahu 
and Jupiter are significators. 


My Guruji says that significators show chances of success, 
and whether they are promised or not are found from the sub- 
lord of the respective cusps. The 4th cusp is in the star of 
Saturn and sub Jupiter. The 11th cusp is in the star of Rahu 
and sub of Kethu. In this case, it promises success in receipt of 
drugs. As it is expected within a few days, consider the transit 
of Sun. He is in Simha and does not transit in any star of any 
of the significators. So consider the transit of Moon. She will 
transit in the sign of Venus (Thula), star of Rahu and sub 
Jupiter within a few days. Further, it is found that she transits 
on 15-9-’°69 (Cn Thula) in Rahu star, Jupiter sub and Venus 
Anthra. 


Planets posited favourably with the major lord will always 
help, assist and co operated with the major lord in giving 
the expected result. Planets inharmoniously disposed with the 
major lord will bring obstacles and cause delay. 


So for another lord, the immediate major lord is the bukthi 
lord. As such, consider the positions of Venus and Saturn. 
Venus is better disposed than Saturn to the bukthi lord Jupiter, 
as it is in the 11th while Satur is in the 8th from Jupiter. So 


134 


in Saturn Anlhra, the drugs may come but will not come to 
band. In Venus Anthra, it will come to hand. So the drugs 
will be had when Moon is in the star of Rahu, sub of Jupiter and 
sub sub of Venus, te. 9° 32' 21* Thula, and the correct time 
will be 2-35 P.M. 


Lastly, I checked up with the ruling planets too, at the 
moment of query. The day was 13-9-’69 Saturday, ruled by 
Saturn, and Rahu acts as Saturn’s agent being in its sign. The 
lord of lagna was Jupiter, Moon was transiting in its own star 
in Kanya. All these satisfied me in arriving at the conclusion 
and the day of receipt would be Monday (15-9-’69> ruled by 
Moon. So like a school boy, I was expecting to see the result 
at 2-39 PM. 1 was hoping against hopes. The hour was 
approaching closer and still there was confidence to check up 
the result. At 2-30 PM. I personally went to the railway 
station and was disappointed. In the meantime, the administra- 
tion unit was informed by the postal authorities of receipt of 
three registered parcels addressed to the Head of our Institution. 
They promptly took action and when those parcels came to my 
hand for checking and necessary action, the time was 2-39 P.M 
sharp. It was a wonderful experience and the prediction was 
very very correct. Later, on inquiry, I found that these parcels 
were delayed at Kandy on changing them from one train to 
another. 


All my friends were stunned at this incident and the correct 
prediction. This perfectness was due to Prof. K. S. Krishna- 
murti’s fruitful research and his system of Advanced Stellar 
Astrology. 


TRAIN RUNNING LATE: TRACK DAMAGED; 
WHEN WILL IT REACH HOME? 


I. It is necessary to note whether we will reach our home 
at all. So, we have to find out the sub-lord of the 4th cusp. If 
the sub lord of the 4th cusp is in the constellation of a planet in 
a movable sign and unafflicted, we will reach the destination 


135 


shortly. But if the lord of the constellation in which the sub- 
lord of the 4th cusp is in a fixed sign, the passengers may have 
to stay in a place for long duration. But if the lord of the con- 
Stellation in which the sub-lord is deposited, is in a common 
sign, then there will be delay. If the sub-lord is afflicted by a 
natural malefic like Saturn there will be undue delay and also 
the passengers have to undergo much of sufferings. If it is Mars 
or Rahu, some repairs also may be needed. But if the lord of 
the constellation in which the sub-lord of the 4th is deposited, 
is conjoined with a benefic, then after delay we will reach our 
home safe. If the question is whether we will make a journey, 
we have to judge the 3rd house. So, for this question we have 
to judge primarily house 4 and then the house 11. 


II. An example is given below : 
Reaching Destination 

“What is the time now, please ?” 

“Half past six.” It is early morning) 

“What is this station?” 

“Sholapur Junction.” 


“Oh God ! If the train runs like this,* I am afraid we can’t 
reach Madras today. 


**Wherefrom are you coming?” 
“Andhra”. 
“Good: Please mention any number between | and 249.” 


“You know Astrology, Sir : Can you tell me something” ? 


“That is alright. You can consult later. First give a 
number.” 


“Nine, Sir.” 


Another passenger said “I am not worried about the time 
of arrival of train at Madras. But we should thank our stars, 
if she runs safely under these disturbed conditions. 


His wife said since a few days, it is not so bad. * I 
will not take so much time as those passengers who left 


136 





Delhi on 15th May, 1969 and reached Madras 192 hours after- 
x71 6.09 | Ven. 0-11 /Sun. 14-09 ae 
Rahu Ss vce III 14-09 “True : This was the 
3-26 11-26-40 | II 16-09 same time taken by 
“———_ =} Astronauts to go to 
Moon and_ return’ to 
XI 6-09 IV 10-09 a 
America. 
Horoscope for 6-30 
A.M. on 28-5-1969 at 17° 
x 10-09 V6-09 | 40’ N Sholapur is as 
t ne follows :— 
| Moon _ | Jup. 2-50 N i 
. 2- umber 9 means A 
Mars | 9.37. | Kethu Sa 
IX 14-09} 17-32 3-26 — Mars sign: 


VI 
VIII 16-09 
=- = 0 = s 
See Moree? Aswion—Kethu star— 


Mercury sub 11-26-40 to'l3° 20°. 





For events which are to happen in a day or two, there is no 
meaning in calculating dasa balance. 


JUDGMENT 


Arriving at Madras means reaching home. So one is to 
take the 4th house and find out the ruling planets. It is the wish 
of one and all to reach home. So include 11th house. 


Find out the  significators. Fourth house extends from 
Cancer 10° 9' to Leo 6° 9'. No planet is deposited in the 4th 
house. Ruler of the sign where 4th cusp falls (i.e.. Cancer) is 
Moon. Lord of the constellation is Saturn and _ sub-lord is 
Venus. 


The 4th cusp falls in 10° 9°. It means it is in Venus sub; 
the lord of the constellation in which Venus is deposited. is 
Kethu; Kethu is conjoined with Jupiter. It is not afflicted by 
Saturn or Mais by conjunction or aspect. 


Therefore. reaching home safe is promised. Let us find out 
when? 


4th house lord Moon governs Rohini, Hastham and 
Sravanam ; Mercury and Sun are in Rohini. 


137 


llth house is occupied by Rahu and its constellation is 
occupied by Moon. 


In Sun’s sign there is neither Moon’s star nor Mercury star. 
But in Moon’s sign there is Mercury star. So, the third significa- 
tor Sun can be the sub-lord. 


Then the point in the Zodiac to rise in the east, at the time of 
arrival at Madras should be Moon sign Mercury star Kethu sub. 


Why? 


Moon fulfils the desire. It has only one sign. Mercury and 
Sun are in the constellation of lord of 4. There is no Sun’s star, 
nor Kethu's star (Kethu represents Mercury) in Cancer. There is 
only Mercury star. So the lagna at Madras on 30-5-69 should be 
above 16° 49° Cancer-Nirayana, 1.e., 10°00’ Leo Sayana. 


(if one goes by air to another country and a city therein, 
then to the place of destination one is to find the time when such 
a position in the Zodiac would rise. 10° Leo Sayana is rise at 
13° North and 80.15E. 


It will be 10 hrs. 15 mts. A M. I.S.T. on 30-5-69. 


“Why should it not be 10-15 A M. today?” If some one 
asks, we have to reply it is the train by which we travel. 
Hundreds of miles cannot be covered in 4 hours. We should use 
commonsense. Scientifically the Moon at the moment of query 
is in Libra owned by Venus and the Ascendant is in Taurus 
owned by the Venus. So day of arrival can be Friday. 


Why should it not go on Saturday, another 24 hours later? 


Saturn is neither a ruling planet nor a_ significator. So, 
Friday 30-5-69 at 10 15 A M. must be the time. 


Readers will be pleased to understand that G. T. which left 
Delhi on 27-5-69 reached Madras on 30-5-69 only at 10-15 A.M. 


Correct time of birth 


Nowadays, even though we have got watches, clocks and 
learned medical attendants to attend upon the labour case and 
note down the exact time of the birth, yet the parents fail to 


138 


keep a record of the correct time of the birth in many cases. 
Further, nowadays, there are many refugees who had left their 
belongings in the countries where they were and had come here; 
a few Jost their parents during the disturbance; most of them 
lost their horoscopes. Therefore, it is not possible to know lhe 
correct time of the birth, even though they may be knowing the 
date of birth. To find birth time, there ate various rules given in 
Hndu Traditional System; the Westerners follow  pre-natu! 
epoch. All th tit methods ure useless for such customers. Only 
the ruling planets at the moment of judgment will be useful and 


innumerable instances arc given in the magazine “ Astrology & 
Athrishta 
Procedure :—Note the constellation in which the lagna at 


the moment of judgment falls; then the lord of the sign where 
the ascendant is; find out in which constellation. Moon is pas- 
sing and know the lord of the constellation and lord of the rasi. 
You should, for astrological purposes, take that sunrise to next 
sunrise is a Day. Therefore, know the lord of the day. Hence 
these five planets happen to be the ruling planets. 


Write down all these ruling planets. Note which are 
deposited in the constellation of lhe planets in retrograde motion. 
Reject them. Then take those planets which are in the constel- 
lation of the planets in direct motion. You have to select the 
ascendant. 


It will fall in a sign and in that in a star and iu that star in 
a sub and in that sub in a sub sub. The lords of all these must 
agree with the ruling planets at the moment of judgment. 


If you get some three positions in the Zodiac, you enquire 
Ihe consultant whether he was horn in the morning or day time 
or night; according to the date of birth find out in which sign he 
could have been bom. Then in that sign select the constellation 
and sub governed by the ruling planets Then, this is the exact 
position of the lagna 


Above rule had been tested by mo»l intelligent students, 
highly qualified, very well placed in life who used to put the 
query in the class and used to ask the correct time of their birth. 


Already they know their correct time; but to ascettai whether 
this method works out correctly hundreds and hundreds of the 
students have tested, verified and were very happy. Readers 
will be pleased to understand that everywhere I came very 
correct, They were also very much impressed, convinced and 
absolutely satisfied. | bad already published in the magarnne 
** Astrology & Athriaht2 how without seeang the native | had 
given the correct time of birth, the nakshathra of bicth, the rasi 
of birth, ctc., to the interested party who had the real urge. I had 
not lested oaly with people who are not known to many, but with 
people holding such a position which will be even to-day from 
1 to 10, in India. Therefore, the above method alone is to be 
followed to find out the correct time of birth and ako correct 
position of one’s lagna 


A gentleman says that hc is bora bei worn 4-30 and $-30 
AM. on 16-10-1919 at 21 TN TS 40 FE. He wants to lnow 
the correct time of birth 


Note the ume when itis taken for judgment. Actually. 
the moment he put the query. it wa taken for yudgment, It is 
8-30 A.M. on 21-1-1968 ; Sunday. Moon in Virgo: in Hastham 
star. Therefore lagna ein Sathabisha star culed by Rahu ; 
Moon is in its own star aad Mercury agn. Way i governed by 
Sun. So. the ruling planets are Rahv. Moon. Mercury, Sun and 
Saturn. The postion of the zodiac that would have men m the 
Fast on 16-10-1919 netween 4-30 A.M. and S-30 A.M. at 21°7 N 
and 7% 40° E would b< as follows: 


He Mts. Seos. 
Sidereal time at avon on |$-10-1919 3 31 $2 
Deduct Cor. for E long. 73 40 0 o0.6CU 
Sid. time at noon at this place 3 OM \ 


11 230 A.M. ws birth time m £S.T., then 
the L.M.T. will be 35440 AM. Inter- 


val between pre-noon and this ume 15 <4 40 
Correction for Interval add 0 2 9 
Therefore S.T. at the time of birth | 5 28 22 
if bicth time is $20 A.M. LS.T. the ST. at 

birth 2 6 28 32 


14- 


Therefore according to Raphaci's Table of houses 22° 49 
Sayana Virgo rises for this latitude of 21° for § hours 28 minutes 
22 seconds and 6° 36. Libra Sayana for 6 hours 28 minutes 32 
seconds. Krishnamurti Ayanamsa for 1919 13 22° 38. There 
fore. according to Nirayana System ( 2 Virgo to 13° $8 
Virgo. 

i select Mercury wg, Moon star, Rahussub as the gentic- 
man gave the numbcr 6 within 108 and it falls in Rahu's star 
Rahu in Meena. denotes Jupticr.» Why I rejected Saturn and 
Sun. If these two would have been the plancts governing thc 
position of lagna, he would have asked on Saturday in Uthra- 
palguni «tar ruled Sy Sun. Therefore, thesc two are weaker 
Yet. one mus: take Saturn sub sub in the sub of Rahu in Moon's 
star Virgo a between 150" and 180. Hastham i» betucen 
160° and 177 WD. Rahu sub is hetwoen 161° $3 20° to 167 
$3 20°. Saturn wh sub is betecen 102° 38. If 162° 37 & 
Nirayana position, then 1"S 15° will be the Sayana position 

To the latituds: of 21, at the Sidereal time 6 hours 22 
minutes 22 wconds $° 1S" Libra will rise. 

1f 6 fers. 22 ents. 22 seca othe Siderval time at the tim of 
birth on 16-10-1919 then the actual ime of birth in L.M.T, © 4 
hre 48 mes WO seca 

The East longtudc being 73 40. the (me in LST. will bv 
$ 23 SO. Therefore actual tim of turth m $ hes. 23 mts 
$0 secs 

If one follows traditional system: 

(e) Ome sto conver the approximate time of tamth to 
Vikaues multiply by 4 and divide by 9. The rerisinder should 
be the Nakskathra counted from Aswini or Makhe of Moola 
When the apprommate time rangca by one hour, ie. 150 
Vikaties, if one works out. he will pet 16 time of berth in 
Vikates, satisfying the ahove rule. 

(6) If one follows the other ruk ic, convert tbe tame 
lapxd from the ime of Sunrisc to the moment of birth in 
Vikateey and divide by 225. If the remainder is 0-15 Male; 15 


141 


to 45 Female; 45 to 90 Male and so on, for a range of 225 
Vikaties, there will be 5 timings satisfying this rule. 


Thus one can find that there is no method to fix the exact 
time without any alternative. When an alternative comes which 
are we to take? The astrologer should not use his discretion. 


If we take prenatal Epoch, 20th or 21st January, 1919 will 
be the day of Epoch and we do not get a single answer. It is 
also not useful. 


The rule is this. The ruling planets at the time of judgment 
will rule (a) the sign, star sub and sub sub of the position of 
lagna, (b) if one wants to position of moon, or one’s star or 
any cusp, then also, according to the question, the ruling planets 
will answer. If one wants to know the position of 7th cusp, 
then also the ruling planets of the moment of judgment, will give 
correct clue. Whichever cusp one want they answer. 


Correct position of lagna and time birth 


I would like to know the exact position of the lagna of this 
horoscope. I have 4 charts and though all have mentioned that 
the lagna is in Virgo, yet one has shown as 13°, one 18° one 22° 
and another 25°. I give you all the four charts. Which is 
correct ? 


When a doubt arises, it gets cleared at a moment which is 
conjointly ruled by the planets. So, what are the ruling planets 
at the moment of query at 6-45 P.M. on 24 12-67. It is a 
Sunday ruled by Sun. The star is Hastha governed by Moon. 
The sign is Virgo. The lagna now is Gemini owned by Mercury. 
Therefore one is to take as Mercury sign Moon star, Sun sub 
and Mercury sub sub. It is 23° 10° in Virgo. Date of birth of 
the person is 13-11-48 at 17° 44' N and 83° 23' E. (12/13-11-48 
Friday/Saturday) If 23° 10' Nirayana Virgo is to rise, it means, 
16° 12' Libra. If 16° 2' Libra is to rise at 17° 4,' N, the sidereal 
time should be 7 hrs. 8 mts. 


Sidereal time at noon on 12-11-48 = 15-26-5 
Deduct correction for East long. 83-23 = 0-0 59 
Sidereal time at noon at 83° 23'E =m 5-25-6 


142 


If the sidereal time is to be 7 hrs. 8 m. it means it is 24 hrs. 
+ 7 hrs. = 31 hrs. 8 mts. 


The difference is 31 hrs. 8 mts. minus 15-25-6 = 15-42-54. 
Correction for interval being 10 seconds per hour and this figure 
is 1 hr. 10 secs, for every hour, the actual difference in L.M.T = 
15-40-17. 


The horoscope is as follows :— 


As the longitude is 83° 

Moon ora 23'E, LS.T. = 15-36-45. 
Therefore time of birth 
in LS.T.=3-36-45 A M. 


on 13-11-48; 

Sun rise L.M.T. on 
13-11-48 12-11-48 at 17° 44' N = 
6-08 A.M. 

Birth time is 15-40-17 
afternoon, ie., 3-40-17 


A.M. 
Jupiter Mars 
6-28 26-30 Difference = 3-40-17 
minus 6.8 = 27-40-17 


minus 6.8 = 21-32-17 = 53G 51 V. 





Correct date and time of birth. 


A very influential and powerful politician wanted to know 
his date of birth. He fixed the time of meeting as 8-15 P.M. 
LS.T. on 9-10-1967. He cannot afford to give interview to any, 
for more than 5 mts. So, I worked out the lagna for 8-15 P.M. 
on 9-10-1967 at Delhi. It was in Sun’s star in Taurus at 6°. 
As the day is Monday and he has fixed this day, Moon must be 
his ruling planet and not Sun as on Sunday even though he 
wanted, I could not meet him, as I was in Kanpur on 8-10-67. 
So I worked out that I could meet him only after Rohini (ruled 
by Moon) rises in the East for Delhi on 9-10-1967. Then, I 
said to his Private Secretary, that I could see the gentleman only 
when Rahu sub rises in the East as Rahu in Aries denotes his 
present portfolio. As sidereal time at noon at Greenwich on 


143 


9-10-1967 was 13 hours 9 minutes 40 secs and Krishnamurti 
Ayanamsa was 23° 18’, I seed that I would meet him only at 8-37 
P.M. even though he has given the time as 815 PM. Mr. Sua- 
daram, one of the intelligent and learncd students, of Astrology 
who accoompamed me noted down the time, &37 P.M. and gave 
it to the Private Secretary. Readers are assured that ou: watches 
were at once set right bY diallme No. 174. 


Actually, he called at 8.37PM. and ee met only then on 
9-10-1967, 


So the culmg plancts arc Venus. Moon and Rahu Here 
we should take Kethu, instead of Venus, as Moon 10 in Kethu 
uar Moolam. Jupiter also is a tuling plaect 


When onc asks the datc. onc should take the position of 
Sun (a) Sun must be im Venus sign. Moon star, Mars sub, 11° 7 
io Taurus. As the year is given as 19]3, the date should be 
26th May, 1913. This gernticman was informed by hes parent» 
tha. he was born around sunset. So take the lagns m Man 
sign. Jupiter star, Rahu 


sub and Venus sub ab. oe oe 

. e vee Se 

i.c., 3° Scorpo, Nirayana = Raby Sue 1f7 

2$° 35 Scorpio i.e., 10° I’ Set. 1 

Sedercal time at birth | 

Sidereal time at noon was Nop O20 
wre 

4 hours 13 mts 48 secs. 6S 1989 

Hence time of birth in ee mw NMwE 


L.M.T. after deducting +9 

correction for interval Ute 

between noon and berth 

time at 10 secs. per hour 4.5 ¢.57 Laem = 
© $ hours 46 mts. 14 secs 

LMT. As the place of 

birth is 74° E, time of berth would be 6 hours 10 mis. 14 secs, 
1ST. P.M. 


* The chart k a* above s— 


Mari Dasa balance 6 years 1 month 18 DAYS 


144 
STRENGTH OF PLANETS 


Western: Westerners consider that a planet situated in its 
own sign is the strongest. The signs are in Sayana system. 
Next in strength is the essential dignity i.e , exaltation. Accord- 
ing to them Sun in 19 deg. in Aries, Moon in 3rd deg Taurus, 
Mars in 28 Capricorn, Mercury in 15 in Virgo, Jupiter in 15 in 
Cancer, Venus in 27 in Pisces Saturn in 21 in Libra and Rahu 
in the 3rd in Gemini and Kethu in the 3rd degree in Sagittarius. 
What we call as debilitation or neecha, they call as FALL and 
hence these planets are debilitated in the opposite signs of their 
exaltation ones. They consider that a planet is very powerful 
in the elevated position Meridian is the most elevated one. 
They term a planet in its own sign as Domal dignity. Detri- 
ment is the term used when a planet is in a sign opposite to its 
own. They have nothing as Moolatrikona, Shadbala, Ashtaka- 
varga etc. 


If a planet is dignified, it will manifest good qualities where- 
as planets without dignity will manifest the lower side of the 
nature. They give importance more to the aspect than these 
dignities. 


Hindu system: They have their method of calculating the 
sixfold strength of a planet to ascertain whether it is strong and 
do good to the native. They are Kalaja, Chesta, Uchchaja, Dik, 
Ayana and Sthana. Also it is said that Moon, Mars and Venus 
are strong if the birth were to be in the night hours ; Mercury 
always; the other planets are strong if the birth was in the day 
time. 


Moon is said to be strong when it is full, i.c., waxing Moon. 
Sun is strong when he is in Northern course, other planets 
when they are retrograde. 


Sun and Mars are strong in the tenth house. Moon and 
Venus are strong in the 4lh house. Mercury and Jupiter are 
strong in the ascendant. Saturn strong in the 7th. Moon, Mer- 
cury and Saturn are strong in the southern course and the others 
in the northern course. 


145 


‘A planet is strong if it is retrograde or if it is full and not 
eclipsed, even though it is debilitated or deposited in enemy’s 
quarters.’ If a planet is eclipsed, it loses all its strength, irres- 
pective of it being exalted etc. Thus the Hindus have various 
rules to calculate the strength of the planet. 


Hindus are of opinion that strong planets will offer invari- 
ably advantageous results, were as those who have little strength 
will dobarm. In practice, it is found to be ABSURD Are there 
not people born in Cancer Ascendant having Jupiter exalted in 
the ascendant suffered during Jupiter Dasa ? Are there not people 
born in Aries having Saturn in 7 met with only difficulties, dis- 
grace and disappointment ? Therefore the nature of the result 
need not be desirable simply because a planet is strong. Further 
there are many other rules; amendments. An exalted planet if 
retrograde it loses strength. An exalted planet if debilitated in 
Navamsa it loses strength and vice versa. A debilitated planet 
if retrograde gains strength. If debilitated in Rasi but exalted 
in Navamsa it gains strength. 


In K.P. no such confusion or thousands of rules. Natal 
Horoscope:— 


In a Natal chart, do not worry whether a planet is in 
direct motion or retrograde. There is no_ difference. Retro- 
grade planets neither loses strength nor they are harmful. 
If one takes the horoscopes of those born in March, April and 
May, 1922, they had Rahu, Jupiter and Saturn in Virgo. 
They were retrograde. People born in the stars of Venus, 
Sun, Moon, Mars and Rahu had the dasas of Jupiter follow- 
ing Rahu and then Saturn The lived long. They had educa- 
tion, they had their marriage, birth of children, purchase of 
car, house, etc. They enjoyed the fruits of life in this world. 
Have the retrograde planets denied because they were retrograde. 
No. Not at all. There is nothing as exaltation becoming auspicious 
and debilitation inauspicious. 


In K.P. (a) if a planet is exalted but is in the constellation 
of a planet in debilitation, the extent to which it can do either 
H.A.—21 


146 


good or bad is limited. A container (the planet) may be big but 
the content is a cheap affair (lord of the constellation is the 
content) like cotton bundle. But a debilitated planet (small 
packet in the constellation of a planet in exaltation (costly 
gems) is similar to diamond in a small packet. The lord of 
the constellation is to be considered as one representing the 
value of the content. The container is the planet which is 
deposited in a constellation. 


Retrograde—Horary chart 


In Horary horoscope, planets in retrograde motion, if 
deposited in the constellation of a planet which is in direct 
motion indicates that after some obstacle and delay, the matter 
will materialise, when it is indirect motion and passes beyond the 
point wherefrom retrograde motion started. 


But planets in retrograde if deposited in the constellation of 
another retrograde planet or in its own when retrograde, promi- 
ses only failure Never success. 


Planets in direct motion if deposited in the constellation 
of a retrograde planet, one cannot have succe s (For retrograde 
motion take only Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Venus and Saturn 
Rahu and Kethu should not be considered as retrograde, as 
these two nodes never appear to retrace the path travelled by 
them. When all planets, in direct motion moves in one direc- 
tion Rahu and Kethu move in the opposite direction. But they 
do not take such a direction by which the Sun or Moon ever 
travel.) 


If one wants to know whether he could marry a girl in view 
and if the sub-lord of the 7th cusp is in direct motion but the lord 
of the constellation is retrograde he cannot marry her. It does 
not mean that he will never marry. If one wants to know whether 
marriage is promised at all and if the sub-lord of the 7th cusp 
is retrograde and it is deposited in the constellation of a retro- 
grade planet, he can never many at all. If a planet is the signi- 
ficator of 2 or 7 or 11 and it is deposited in the constellation of 
a retrograde planet whether it is in direct motion or retrograde, 


147 


that planet cannot give marriage in its period or sub-period. His 
vote is invalid in the election. If one wants to know whether 
be can divorce one ; if the significator of 1 or 6 or 10 were 
to be in the constellation of a planet in retrograde motion he 
can’t divorce her. If one courts imprisonment and if the signi- 
ficator of the houses 3 and 12 are deposited in the constellation 
of a planet in retrograde motion, he will not be arrested, in its 
period and sub-period. But another significator of 3 and 12 
whether it is retrograde or direct will give him prison life in its 
period if this significator is in the constellation of a planet in 
direct motion. 


If one wants to know whether he will win in the races, or in 
the competition, or litigation or election, if the significator of the 
houses 6 and 11 is deposited in the constellation of a retrograde 
planet he cannot win in the period and sub-period of that planet: 
but later when the significator of 6 and 11, in direct or retrograde 
motion deposited in the constellation of one in direct motion, 
rules, during its period and sub-period he will win. 


ECLIPSE—ECLIPSED PLANET—RESULTS 


If any heavenly body intercepts the light of ? iother 
heavenly body and the onlooker is unable to see the farther off 
planet it is said to be eclipsed. The nearer planet deprives ihe 
light of the more distant planet. Its brilliance, the circular 
Shape and splendour will be lost. 


In the Solar system, Sun is taken as the Central body 
around which the planets move round and round. Each _ planet 
has its own orbit— its own pathway round the Sun. But the 
earth and the Moon go round the Sun, together. The one 
feature of Moon which is about 2,40,000 miles away from the 
earth goes round the earth once in 27 J days and both Moon and 
earth go round the Sun once a year. 


Mercury and Venus are very near Sun. Sun is 93 million 
miles away from the earth. Mercury is 36 millions miles away 
from Sui ; Venus is 67 million miles away from the Sun, 


148 


Therefore, there will be occasions when Moon, Mercury and 
Venus can come between the earth and the Sun. 


Suppose you keep one of youi fingers near either of your 
eyes. Close the other eye. One elephant standing 100 years, 
away is hidden by this small finger. This depends on the size of 
the finger, its nearness to the eye and the farther distance of the 
elephant. Now, your eye, the finger and the elephant are in the 
same line and plane. Suppose, the elephant is lifted by a lift, 
in the same place. Even though the elephant was hidden by the 
finger previously, as it is lifted up above the area covered by the 
finger, then the elephant becomes visible, slowly and steadily. 


Thus Moon is a decently big body. It is very near to the 
earth. The Sun is very far off. It is very big like the elephant 
compared with finger. So, when the Moon comes in between 
the observer and the Sun, the Sun is not visible. Slowly the 
Shadow of the Moon, covers the Sun. This is called the Solar 
eclipse. During the duration of the eclipse the declination of 
the Moon and Sun will be the same. But if the declination is 
different, but the celestial longitude of both is the same then it is 
only New Moon. Similarly, when earth comes between Moon 
and Sun, earth prevents Moon from getting the light of the Sun, 
and lunar eclipse is formed. 


Just like, during Solar eclipse, Sun loss its brilliance and is 
hidden by Moon, and during lunar eclipse Moon loses its 
pleasant light and is hidden by the earth, so also the rays of 
other planets are interrupted. Because, we, on the earth, do 
not receive very bright light, illuminating the objects on the 
earth, from other planets, we cannot see, notice and realise the 
eclipse of the other planets. 


The planets Mercury and Venus are called Inferior planets 
as they are nearer to Sun than the earth and they can be between 
the Sun and the Earth, just like Moon during New Moon days 
and Solar eclipse days. Moon is hidden from Sun by the eartjg 
during lunar eclipse. But earth can never came in between 
Mercury and Sun or in between Venus and Sun. Because, Sup 


149 


is the Centre. From Sun, Mercury is 36 million miles away. 
Venus is 67 million miles from Sun. The distance between Sun 
and Earth is 92 million miles. 


The other planets are called the superior planets. 


Westerners give importance only to the Solar and Lunar 
eclipse. They do not attach much importance to the conjunction 
of Sun with other planets. 


Hindus pay much attention to the eclipse of the planets 
while they predict results of those planets in their dasas and 
bhukties, while giving transit results how a planet getting eclipsed 
will behave and also while selecting an auspicious time to 
celebrate marriage, or entry into a new house or for learning 
vedas, etc. 


Hindus are of opinion that the eclipsed planet, whether 
a benefic or a malefic, loses its strength especially to do good 
to the native. 


In Jataka Thatvam, Mahadeva says that the planet that is 
eclipsed will cause trouble and produce untoward results. In 
‘Sanketanidhi’, Ramadayalu has said if Mars and Venus 
are eclipsed and occupy the 5th house, the person concerned 
becomes one-eyed and if the lord of the rising dwadasamsa is 
eclipsed, the person’s property is insecure the also says that the 
lord of the rising Trimsamsa when eclipsed causes misunder- 
standing among the relatives. 


Kalidas is of the opinion that if the lord of a Bhava is 
eclipsed by the Sun’s rays, the Bhava is completely destroyed 
even if the Bhava is occupied by benefics. In his work ‘Uttara 
Kalamirtham’, he adds that Venus and Saturn do not lose 
strength even when eclipsed. 


Prithuyasas, son of Varahamihira, deals a little elaborately 
in his work Horasara, with the results of eclipsed planets. 
Even though the planets may be strong by occupying a position 
in the Zodiac, yet they become weak if they are eclipsed by the 
Sun and hence they do not produce the good effects which are 
declared to fructify in their dasa period, yogas and their bhavas 


150 


However strong a planet may be, still it will not produce any 
good effect if it is eclipsed, and during its dasa, results will be 
bad. It will apply to the results of the Bhava it owns and also 
occupies. He also mentions that planets, excepting Venus and 
Saturn, lose half of their strength when eclipsed. If the Moon 
becomes eclipsed, the native will have a fall from his position, 
will be mentally afflicted, and will suffer from jaundice and 
similar diseases. Further, there will be risk from water. 


Mars, when eclipsed, will give trouble and many kinds of 
worries, and the native’s mind will be in a destructive mood. 


Mercury when eclipsed, brings loss through lands and 
perpetual mental affliction. He will suffer from jaundice, sick- 
ness, catarrh, etc. He will also incur loss. 


Eclipsed Jupiter gives misery and happiness in_ equal 
proportion. 


Saturn in eclipsed state shows that the person’s income and 
expenditure will balance each other. He will not feel happy. 
He will have a frail body. But this fame will spread very wide. 
He will be tormented by various mental cares 


Prithuyasas also mentions that one’s education will be 
spoiled in the period of a planet occupying the navamsa sign 
owned by the eclipsed one. 


When longevity is calculated, the Hindu sages declare that 
one born during the period of eclipse is very short-lived, if the 
lords of the lagna, navamsa lagna and Moon rasi are all 
eclipsed, the person cannot live long. 


While the strength of the eclipsed planet is discussed, 
Varahamihira says in Brihat Jataka that planets, when eclipsed, 
contribute only one half of what longevity they can give in the 
same position in the Zodiac, if they are not eclipsed. But 
Mantreswara in Phaladeepika writes that the strength of an 
eclipsed planet is mil and a person will meet with his end in its 
dasa within a short time after it starts. Destruction to the 
members of the family and wealth is threatened. He will have 
litigation and may suffer humiliation. He says that the eclipsed 


151 


planet ruling the 7th house shows loss of wife; lord of 5 denotes 
danger to children and lord of lagna will cause death to the 
native. If the planet is not eclipsed, good effect of the bhava 
will be enjoyed. A// will welcome the lord of 6 to be eclipsed 
as it is strong to destrop the enemies. 


Correct interpretation K. P: 
| What eclipsed planet can do in its period or sub-period. | 


Let us consider the results of the planets situated in the 
constellation of those which are eclipsed and what they signify. 
If a planet is deposited in the constellation of an eclipsed one 
and if it is the sub-lord of the lagna cusp, the sub lord shows that 
the native will be imprisoned; he will lead the life incognito ; 
will suffer from fear, disease and anxiety, will participate in 
funeral rites; incur loss and may lose position too, will be un- 
fortunate, etc. 


Sub lord of 2nd cusp: Behaves stupidly in a_ public 
assembly, will be untrustworthy, will receive annoying letters, 
write bad ones or anonymous ones suffer from eye troubles, will 
be foul-tongued, spend heavily, incur rojal displeasure. 


Sub lord of 3rd cusp : Demise of brother, evil advice, 
trouble through secret mechanisation of internal enemies, humili- 
ation, discomfixture and loss of pride thereby. 


Sub lord of 4th cusp: Distress to mother, sickness to dear 
friends, danger to building, trouble due to the loss of cattle, 
danger from water and conveyance. 


Sub lord of 5th cusp: Loss of a child, aberration of the 
mind, deception, wearisome, wandering, trouble in the stomach, 
displeasure of the Government and bodily weakness. 


Sub lord of 6th cusp : Will have troubles through thieves, 
will suffer reverse, defeat, will commit wicked acts, will do servile 
duties, will be despised, scandalised and injured. \ 


Sub lord of 7th cusp : Distress to son-in-law, separation 
from beloved, untoward results due to the troubles from the 


152 


opposite sex, intrigues with wicked women, diseases in the 
private parts, ever wandering. 


Sub lord of 8th cusp :—Excessive sorrow : want of sense, 
camal appetite, jealousy, unconsciousness, poverty, fruitless 
rambling, sickness, humiliation and death. 


Sub lord of 9th cusp:—Will incur the wrath of the deity 
or Guru or preceptor or father suffer something untoward, 
trouble to wife and children, will do wicked acts, elder's demise, 
will suffer from poverty. 


Sub lofd of 10th cusp: Fruitless attempts, loss of 
honour, will become wicked, leaves his permanent place, inaus- 
picious happenings, will lead bad life, suffer troubles. 


Sub lord of 11th cusp : Bad news, trouble to elder brother, 
sickness to children, will suffer misery, deception and ear disease. 


Sub lord of 12th cusp: Various diseases, dishonour, dis- 
appearance of wealth, detention, bondage. 


These results will be experienced by a person when he runs 
-he dasa, bhukti or anthra of the sub lord as mentioned above. 


Mantreswara gives hopes by saying that a planet, even when 
eclipsed, if it occupies an auspicious sign and Navamsa, will, in 
its period, offer mixed results and finally in the latter half at its 
dasa, agreeable and beneficial results. 


Transit results of eclipsed planets: Planets in their transit 
through favourable houses.(houses, constellations and subs 
wherein they have to give good effects) become void of effect if 
they happen to be eclipsed. But if the houses transited by 


them be unfavourable, then they will give bad effects in an 
aggravated form. 


Election of auspicious time for any undertaking : Avoid 
the constellation in which the recent eclipses have appeared with- 
in six months before and after the month when one desires to do 
any auspicious work. 


It is also declared that it is not advisable to celebrate 
Upanayanam or matriage or construct a building or enter into 


153 


new premises when Jupiter and Venus are eclipsed. It is called 
‘Guru, Sukra Moodam’ or Moudyam or Asthamanam”. 


People belonging to Sama Veda should not initiate mantra 
and do Upanayana when Mars is eclipsed. Rig Veda _ people 
Should avoid these when Jupiter is eclipsed. If Venus is eclipsed, 
Yajur Veda people should not have Upanayanam. 


Westerners are of opinion that the conjunction of Sun and 
Moon is highly conducive to promote material welfare and to 
have bright careers from the time of conjunction. Sun and Mars 
in close conjunction give force of character and power of endu- 
rance. Great self-control is to be exercised. There will be struggle 
between one’s will and desires during one’s life. 


Sun and Mercury in close conjunction give much mental 
ability, with a clear thinking of high order. It gives adaptability. 
One will have reasoning ability, memory and fluency of speech. 
The greatest orators, chief engineers, famous accountants and 
auditors are having Sun and Mercury in the same _ longitude 
(degree and minute) when it is combust. Only a few are per- 
verted and dogmatic depending on the sub-lord (K.P. explains it). 


Sun in conjunction with Jupiter makes one a scholar. He 
will maintain good health, enjoy mental equilibrium and have 
professional advancement. New undertakings will prosper and 
constructive ability will be strengthened. 


Conjunction of Sun and Venus shows popularity and social 
success. He will acquire competence in music, art, poetry, 
wrestling etc. He will gain through the other sex. Marriage will 
give continuous happiness. 


Conjunction of Saturn and Sun gives indomitable will, 
courage and strength of intellect. It does not promote material 
happiness. Ill-health and obstacles delay one’s advancement in 
life. But it brings lot of power, authority and responsibility if 
Saturn receives good aspects from benefits. (One may become 
Sany asi.) 


Thus Westerners have taken each planet, observed the 
results and have recorded them. Those who are interested to do 


154 


research can take the horoscope of those in whom a few planets 
are eclipsed and observe the various results enjoyed by them 
during the dasa of the eclipsed planets. 


Stellar Astrological Research Institute, Madras, verified 
various charts and found out that the eclipsed planets give both 
good and bad results in their dasas, depending upon the Bhukti- 
nathas, ie., a person born in Dhanur lagna having Mercury 
eclipsed, had his marriage and prosperity in his profession dur* 
ing Mercury Dasa. As lord of 7, it gave marriage, and as lord 
of 10 gave promotion. A person born in Vrischika Lagna with 
Moon in Vrischika had Venus eclipsed at the time of his birth. 
He had his wedding in Venus Dasa and he enjoyed his married 
life. He also invested money on luxurious articles, jewels and 
furniture. Thus one can see that the planet when eclipsed does 
not become a malefic and deny the results which it has to 


offer. 


HOW LONG WILL ONE LIVE? 


Ask for a number between 1 and 249: for that number 
fix the ascendant referring to the Table for Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati. 


If the ascendant is in a movable sign, ilth house is the 
badhakasthana, if the ascendant falls in a fixed sign, 9th house 
is the badhakasthana if the ascendant falls in a common sign, 
the 7th house is the badhakasthana. 


Whatever be the sign in which the ascendant falls, the 2nd 
and the 7th houses are marakasthanas. Therefore one is to 
judge all these three houses and find out the significators. 


One has to erect the map and note down the dasa balance 
to find out the date of death. 


According to western system, the ascendant, the Moon and 
the Sun should not be forming evil aspects with the lord of 4, 6, 
8 and 12, and at the same time the lord of the ascendant the 
Moon and the Sun must be strong. In that case, long life is 


155 


promised. Jupiter and Venus ruling good houses and the lord of 
the ascendant forming good aspect with Moon or Sun promises 
long life But if the ascendant, Moon and Sun are receiving 
bad aspects like square, opposition, conjunction etc., from 
the lord of 4, 6, 8 or 12, only short life is indicated. This is 
how th * westerners proceed, they say that the ascendant, its lord 
and the Moon indicate the consultant’s health and longevity. 
They add that lord of the ascendant retrograde or deposited in 
8, or lord of 8 in one, or malefics occupying one and 8 will cause 
short life. To note for how many more years one would 
live, they calculate as follows : If the lord of the ascendant 
will from either conjunction or square or opposition with Sun 
or to the lord of 8, 6 or 4, calculate how many degrees he is 
away from that planet. Then calculate according to the rules 
given already. 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati: Note the sub-lord of _ the 
ascendant. If be is deposited in the constellation of the signifi- 
cators of badhakasthana and marakasthana the life will be short 
after the time of judgment. It will not be for many years. If 
sub-lord of the ascendant were to be in the constellation of the 
significator of sixth house, the person will suffer from disease 
but will not succumb to it; but if the sub-lord of the ascendant 
is deposited in the constellation of the significator of the 8th 
house, he will meet with accident. If the sub-lord of the 
ascendant in the Horary Chart is the significator of the 12th 
house, he will be in bed for long period and may be admitted in 
a hospital. Death is indicated only by the significators of 
marakasthana and badhakasthana According to the strength 
of the lord of the constellation in which the sub-lord of the 
ascendant is deposited, one is to fix the dasa and the sub-periods. 
Calculate from the horoscope erected for the number (Horary) 
and work out, after how many years and months, the conjoined 
period of the significators will operate. 


Predict that he will live only for so many yean and months. 
Never omit to confirm by taking the ruling planets as the 
moment of judgment. 


156 


Number 246 is given for judgment at 5-30 P.M. on 


_~10__* 
seme 24-10 —*67, 
14-05 


Lagna 
23° 20) II 25-25 


By 246 it is meant that 
Jupiter's sign Pisces, 
Mercury star Revathi and 
the sub of Mars is the 


Ascendant. 
2410 —’67 


5-30 P.M. 


Vv The sub-lord Mars is 

en. 21-24 
Jupiter in the constellation of 
11 Kethu in the 7th house. 


Mer. (R) Hence the death is inevi- 
25-18 table and by transit when 

VIII 25-25 | VII 23-20 

Sun 7-05 lord of 1, the ascendant 


Kethu 4-19 conjoins the node in the 
7th house, in that year, when Sun transit in Sun’s star and Kethu 
sub and when Moon transits the constellation of Rahu or Guru 
or Kethu, the end will come. 





Ruling planets : Day lord, Mars. Ascendant is in Aswini, 
Kethu star, sign is Aries, owned by Mars; Moon is in Arudhra 
star governed by Rahu and the lord of the sign where Moon is 
Mercury. Hence the ruling planets are Rahu, Mars, Mercury 
and Kethu. Jupiter and Mars are in Kethu constellation. Since 
Mercury is in the sign and house, where Kethu is, take Kethu. 


Therefore in the conjoined period of the ruling planets the 
life must end 


Analysis : 


For death, we must consider the badhakasthana and_ the 
marakasthanas. As Pisces is lagna, it is a common sign. 
7th house from this sign is badhakasthana. For common 
sign the 7th house is badhakasthana and marakasthana, and 
Kendhrasthana. So it is trebly evil to cause the death. 


According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, the following are 
the significators of death: 


(a) The planets posited in the constellation of the 
occupants of badhakasthana and marakasthana. 


157 


(b) The planets occupying the above said houses. 


(c) The planets in the constellation of the lords of the 
above said badhaka and maraka houses. 


(d) The lords of these houses. 


(ec) Those which are conjoined with the significators 
or aspected by them, thereby having connection 
with these matters. 


Now let us analyse houses 2 and 7. 


The second bhava is unoccupied by any planet. Mars is 
lord of 2. Rahu is in Armies, representing Mars. Rahu 
(a node) is therefore more strong to give the result. Select 
Rahu. Sun is in Rahu star. 


The seventh bhava is occupied by Sun, Kethu and retro- 
grade Mercury. 


Mercury rules Ashlesha Jyeshta, and Revathi. No planet 
is in any. Mercury (R) is in the constellation of Jupiter and in 
the sub of retrograde Saturn. 


Sun is conjoined with Kethu. Kethu rules Aswini, Makha 
and Moola. Rahu, Mars and Jupiter are in the constellation 
of Kethu. Jupiter is in 6th sign and aspects both Mars and 
Rahu. Jupiter is also in sub Rahu, a significator of death. Mars 
is represented by node Rahu. Kethu is also occupant of 7th 
bhava. Kethu is in the constellation of Mars (lord of 2) and in 
the sub of Venus (lord of 8), a strong significator of death. 
Finally take Rahu, Kethu and Jupiter. 


If we analyse dasa system, the native is running Rahu 
Dasa, Mercury Bhukti. (Balance | year and 26 days). 


Thus we come to the conclusion that during Rahu Dasa 
Kethu Bhukti Rahu Anthra, Jupiter Shookshma the native will 
meet with his death. 


I predicted that it would be in the month of May, 196A 
(Actually this person died in May 1969.) 


158 


What about ailment? 


Health is generally good If the sub-lord of the ascendant is 
deposited in the constellation of the planet occupying the house 
1 or 11. But, if the sub-lord of the ascendant is deposited in the 
constellation of a planet which is the significator of I and 6, one 
will suffer from disease during its periods and sub-periods. If 
the sub-lord of the 6th house is deposited in the constellation of 
a planet which is the significator of the 6 and 1 and not of 11, 
then the sub-lord, during its sub-period, will give the disease. 
If the sub-lord is deposited in a constellation, the lord of which 
is connected in any manner with Saturn, the disease is a chronic 
one. Even, if the sub-lord is Saturn, the disease is a chronic 
one. But, if the sub-lord is in any manner connected with Mars, 
it is an acute disease. Mercury shows complications. 


Cure When’? 


Generally, one falls ill at the time when the conjoined 
period of the planets connected with the 6th and the first house 
in any manner operates; but, the cure comes only when the 
significator of the 5th or 11th house follows the period governed 
by the disease producing 6th house significator. One will 
survive from the disease after the cure, only when his longe- 
vity is promised, (For longevity, one has to find out the 
Bathaka Sthana and Maraka Sthana. These will give a clear 
picture). 


As regards the nature of the disease, I have already publi- 
Shed what each sign, star and sub indicates and said what it 
would be. Therefore, you have to refer to it and then ascertain 
which part of the body will be affected. 


ACCIDENT 


In Astrology, there is nothing as ‘Accident*. Astrological 
dictionary does not have this word because, for every result, 
there is a cause. Therefore, even that which the people call as 
‘Accident* is something which happens when least expected. 
Anything that is a surprise and an unexpected one alone is 


159 


classified as an accident, whether the result is favourable or 
unfavourable. 


Therefore, the sub-lord of the 8th house is to be deposited 
in the constellation of the planet which is the significator of the 
8th house. If the significator happens to be also the significator 
of the 6th house, then he will have fever, etc., following the acci- 
dent. If the same sub-lord is in the star of a planet who is also 
the significator of the 12th, he will be admitted in a hospital. 
If the sub-lord happens to be the significator of Bathaka Sthana, 
and Maraka Sthana; he will succumb to it, provided his longe- 
vity is not further more promised. If the longevity is promised, 
he will get over this, and the condition of the patient would be 
threatening. Some may be unconscious; some may be given 
blood transfusion and also oxygen. Therefore we have to judge 
both the longevity and also the duration of the disease. 


ABSENT PERSON ALIVE OR DEAD 


Western system: One is interested to know whether the 
person who is absent, is alive or dead, generally if one happens 
to be related to the absence. If he is a brother, take the third 
house to represent him. If it is father as per Western theory 
take the fourth as his ascendant ; if it is a son take the fifth; 
if it is wife take the 7th. If there is no relationship take the 
first house itself to represent him —(I do not agree. Because 
according to me all people not related to the native should be 
judged from the 9th house. They take lord of 1 and also Moon 
to represent him. If the lord of lagna and Moon apply con- 
junction or any adverse aspect to the lord of the 8th, be will 
shortly die. If these two are forming separation aspect with 
lord of 8, and if there is no favourable aspect he is already dead. 
The number of degrees between the significators give the 
number of months, days etc. (Calculation Cumbersome). If 
lord of 1 is in 5 and it is squared by Moon there is the danger 
of death. If lord of 1 is conjoined with lord of 8 and is in 8 or 
4 he is already dead. This fails when lord of 1 is al so lord of 
8 and it is in 4 in good constellation. 


160 


Krishnamurti | Padhdhati: Take that house which 
represents the relationship. For father and for strangers take 
only the 9th house. Find out where the cusp falls. If the sub- 
lord of the cusp is in the constellation of the planet who is the 
significator of Bhadhaka and Maraka sthanas, boldy declare 
that he is dead. It will prove to be very correct. If this 
significator is in a watery sign, he is drowned; if it is in fiery 
sign he had received injuries and died. If it is an earthy sign, he 
had natural end. If the sub-lord of the cusp of the house 
representing the relative is in the constellation of the lord of 
that house or the significators of the house representing that 
relation he is alive; if that lord is also the significator of 
the sixth house counted from that house representing him, 
then he is ill. 


News about the person—When ? 


If the sub-lord of the cusp of the third house counted from 
the ascendant of the horary chart (to get news) is in the con- 
Sstellation of the planet who is the significator of 3 and 11, on the 
day Moon transits that (1) position of the zodiac (sign, star and 
sub) which is governed by the significators of 3 counted from 
the ascendant, (2) 3rd counted from the house representing the 
relative and the llth from the ascendant the querist will receive 
the letter. The exact time, will be the moment when the 
ascendant on that day to the place of residence on that day 
(Latitude and Longitude) governed by the significators just 
above mentioned, rises in the east Because a consultant may 
be wandering here and there in search of the absentee. At the 
time, he hears the news or receives a letter or phone or wire the 
locality may be different. The position of the ascendant varies 
according to latitude and the time according to longitude even 
though for a particular moment Sun, Moon and the other 
planets mav be in the same position in the zodiac. Position of 
Moon and the ascendant alone is to be judged. In cas if the 
significator is connected with Saturn, find out in which month 
Sun will reach that position of the zodiac. 


lol 








When will I buy? 

Rahu 

23-15 Venus Sun 5-49 

Saturn 27-19 yee 14-44 

27-27 er. 27-47 

noon Lagna 

ae 12-6-40 

Rasi 
Jupiter 
30° 42’ 
Kethu 
Zo 
Table of Cusps: 


Ist Cusp-Cancer 

2nd Cusp—Leo 

3rd Cusp—Virgo 

4th Cusp—Libra 

Sth Cusp—Scorpio 

6th Cusp—Sagittarius 

7th Cusp—Capricorn 

8th Cusp—Aquarius 

9th Cusp —Pisces 
10th Cusp—Aries = 
[lth Cusp—Taurus 
12th Cusp—Gemini 


Dasa system: 


* A well-wisher from 
New Delhi writes: when 
shall I purchase a fridge ? 
My number is 72 (bet- 
ween 1 and 249 and time 
is 7-30 A. M._ today 
20-5-68. Please send me 
your detailed note for 
our help in studying it. 
Rest is O.K. 


The following is the 
Nirayana rasi chart i— 


12 6.40 
5.43 

3 43 
5.43 
9.43 
12.43 
12.6.40 
5.43 
3.43 
5.43 
9.43 
12.43 


Rahu Dasa Venus Bhukti runs upto 17th August, 1973. 


The 4th house represents pleasure, 12th house for invest- 
ment, Saturn for cool and Ilth house shows whether one’s 
desire will be fulfilled or not. Let use analyse the houses 4, 11, 12 


and Saturn. 
H, A.—23 


162 


The 4th Bhava is unoccupied by any planet. Venus is lord 
of the 4th house. Venus rules Bharam Poorvapalguni and 
Poorvashada. No planet Is in Venus’ constellation. Take 
Venus. 


The eleventh bhava Is occupied by Mars and Mercury. 
Mars rules Mrigasira, Chitra and Dhanishta. Mercury is in the 
constellation of Mars. Kethu in Virgo represents Mercury. 
Take Kethu. 


Mercury rules Aslesha, Jyeshta and Revathi. Saturn and 
Rahu are in the constellation of Mercury. Take Rahu and 
Saturn. 


The 12th bhava is unoccupied ; Mercury is the lord of this 
bhava. Mercury has been discussed above. 


Saturn we have already taken. 


Thus Venus, Rahu, Saturn and Kethu are the significators. 
So the native will purchase his fridge during Rahu Dasa, Venus 
Bhukti, Saturn Anthra and Kethu Sookshma, 1e., around the 
third week of September 1969. 


(He bought on 22-9-69 


Free From Financial Worry 


“Sir, When I can get over my financial trouble? My 
Mills produce fast. But the products do not move equally 
fast.” 


“I understand your bank position is to improve. Probably 
your wish is that the source of income should be by disposal 
of goods. So, nature of events is getting money : Source is sale 
of proceeds. Alright! Can you give any number between 1 and 
249.” 


“78 comes to my mind.” 


“According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, 78 means. Moon’s 
sign, Mer. star; and Sun sub 21° 33' 20' 


The following is the chart for the moment of judgment at 
5-30 P.M. LS.T. on 1-7-69 


163 


Sale of proceeds and 
stoi IX 20-36 | Sat. 13-28 | XI 23-36 | Sun 16-07 
to gain thereby Is indi Rabu 1-40| X 22-36 XII 22-36 


cated by the significators 
of the houses 3 and 11, 
as 4th house denotes he 
VIII 19-36 © 22! 4/)x 
possessions and 3rd Seat cs 21° 33' 20 
house indicates parting Balance 
with possessions. 11th VII ye 
a: . | 21-33-20 9 days 
house indicates _ profit. Moon II 19-36 
Only when there is a 9-56 
profit bank position will 
improve. But if the 12th 
house significator opera- 
tes, one loses not only 
what he possesses but also sells away at a lower price. 


Ket 1-40 


V 23-26 
TV 22-36 | Jup. 4-57 
Mars 8-41 Il 20-36 


1 


VI 22-36 





Therefore first judge whether the significator of the 3rd 
house is connected with 11 or 12 or both. 3 and 11 means 
profit, 3 and 12, loss; 3, 11 and 12 means, one makes 
money parting with one’s possessions ; If the 3rd cusp sub-lord 
is Mercury or if the sublord Is in a dual sign or in the constel- 
lation of the planet in a dual sign, one sells many a time and 
makes money 


3rd house commences at 20°36' Virgo and extends up to 22° 
36' Libra : The Cusp is in Moon star Venus sub. Venus is in the 
earthy, fixed sign. Hence, either there can be only loss or only 
gain depending on the significators of 11th house. 


11th house extends from 23° 36' Taurus to 22° 36' Gemini. 
Mercury and Sun are deposited in 11. Mercury star is not 
occupied by any. Kethu will act as agent. 


Sun’s star is occupied by Venus, Kethu, Jupiter and Moon. 
Rahu acts as agent of Jupiter. 


Hence Moon, Jupiter, Mercury, Kethu, Rahu and Sun ar? 
the significators, 


164 


He is entering into Moon Dasa on 10-7-69. The following 
sub period shows the commencement of the movements of goods 
and obtaining money 


1. Moon Dasa Moon Bhukti Rahu Anthra and Jupiter 
Anthra. 


2. Moon Dasa Moon Bhukti Mercury Anthra onwards the 
goods will be moving. During Mars sub-period of 7 months 
there will be stagnation. 


Only from February 71, continuously there will be move- 
ment of goods. Money will be realised. 


As Rahu is in 8, in Jupiter’s star Rahu sub, all overdraft 
facilities will be cleared and one’s own money will be accumula- 
ting in the bank from Moon Dasa Rahu Bhukti Guru Anthra 
Rahu Shookshma, i.e. May 1971. Thereafter, for nearly 30 
months, speedy turnover, larger profits and absolute satisfaction 
is promised. 


Satum sub-period shows labour trouble entanglement of 
money, bills remain unpaid; hence there will be pressure for 
money. 


Luckily after these 19 months for many _ years, the 
production, the sales, the profit, etc. will be satisfactory and 
substantial. 


Is there second marriage for me ? 


Marriage means an addition to the family members, partner- 
ship, legal bondage and conjugal relationship. The 2nd house 
indicates addition to family member, 7th shows partnership and 
legal bondage and the 11th indicates pleasure and permanent the 
of friendship. 


Therefore houses 2, 7 and 11 are to be judged for first 
marriage. For second marriage, houses 2 and 11 are to be 
judged. 


165 


Second marriage is indicated if the following two conditions 
are simultaneously satisfied: 


(i) The sub-lord of the 7th cusp is deposited in a dual 
sign or in the constellation of a planet in or owning 
a dual sign or if the sub-lord of the 7th cusp is 
Mercury ; and 


(11) the sub-lord of the 7th cusp is also a significator of 
either of the houses 2 or 11. 


If any one of the above two conditions is not satisfied, then 
second marriage is denied. 


To find out the sub-lord of the 7th cusp and to predict, a 
number 29 is given within 249 at Bombay at 5.30 P.M. on 
6-5-1969. The horary chart showing the twelve cusps for this 
number for Bombay with the planetary position for the above > 
date and time is as follows : 


Ven. 18-00} XII 5-04 The 7th cusp is 10° 0' 
| Scorpio, ic. Mars sign 
Saturn Star, Venus sub. 

The sub-lord Venus is 
1" eas deposited /in the sign 





5-30 P.M. LS.T Meena which is a dual. 
se a Therefore the first of the 
Ayanamsa 23 20 two necessary conditions 
for second marriage is 
satisfied. 
Moon | Mars (R) ee To see whether the 
21-22 22-00 ee 
VIII 6.04 | VI10-00 second condition is also 
satisfied or not, Judge 
Balance of Venus Dasa 7 years whether the sub lord of 


11 months and 12 days. 
The 7th cusp is a significator of either 2nd or 11th house. 


The significators of all the houses, fourd out as per K.P. 
are tabulated as under: 


166 


House Planets signifying 
significators Houses 


I Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, 


Venus, Saturn, Rahu, Ketu. Sun 1, 6, 11, 12. 
II Mars, Mercury, Saturn, Moon 1, 3, 4, 6, 8, 11. 
Kethu. Mars 1, 2, 5, 7, 12. 
Ill Moon, Mercury, Venus, Mercury 1, 2, 3, 4,5, 
Rahu, Kethu. 8. 
IV Moon, Mercury, Venus, Jupiter 5, 8, 11, 12. 
Rahu, Kethu. Venus 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 11. 
V Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn 1, 2, 5, 6, 8, 
Venus, Saturn, Rahu, 9, 10, 11, 12. 
Kethu. Rahu 1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 
VI Sun, Moon, Venus, 8, 9, 10, li, 12. 
Saturn, Rahu, Kethu. Kethu 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.6, 
VII Mars. 8, 11, 12. 


VII Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, 

Saturn, Rahu, Kethu. 

IX Saturn, Rahu. 

X Saturn, Rahu. 

XI Sun, Moon, Jupiter, 
Venus, Saturn, Rahu, 
Kethu. 

XII Sun, Mars, Jupiter, 

Saturn, Rahu, Kethu. 


It can be seen from the above table of significators that 
Venus, the sub lord of the 7th cusp, is a significator of 11th 
house. Therefore the second necessary condition is also satis- 
fied, thereby indicating that second marriage is promised. 


To find out the time of celebration of the second marriage 
tsk« out the significators of the houses 2 and 11 from the above 
table. They ate Mars, Mercury, Saturn, Kethu, Sun, Moon, 
Jupiter, Venus and Rahu. All the nine planets are significators 
of houses 2 & 11. When many signify, the best course to elimi- 
nate the tempors and select the beneficial ones is to go for 


13 


167 


Ruling planets. They are the lords of the day, Moon sign, star 
and lagna at the moment of judgement. 


The day is Tuesday ruled by Mars. The rasi is Dhanus, 
owned by Jupiter. The star is Purvashada governed by Venus. 
The lagna is Tula owned by Venus. 


As Rahu is conjoined with Venus and Kethu with Jupiter, 
take Rahu and Kethu also. 


Therefore the ruling planets are Mars, Jupiter, Venus, Rahu 
and Kethu. None of them is posited either in the constellation 
or sub of a retrograde planet. Therefore consider all. 


Mars and Jupiter are themselves retrograde. But that does 
not prevent them from giving results. Only thing is that they 
are incapable of giving results as long as they are retrograde. 
Once they become direct they will give. 


According to dasa-bhukti, balance of Venus Dasa is 7 years 
11 months and 12 days from 6-9-1969. In Venus Dasa, Jupiter 
Bhukti is running. Jupiter is lord of llth. So you will have 
second marriage in Jupiter Bhukti. Jupiter Bhukti will run upto 
18-2-1970. Jupiter will become direct on 23-5-1969. So it can 
give result during 23-5-1969 and 18-2-1970. In this period Mars 
Anthra runs from 28-7-1969 to 24-9-196) and Rahu Anthra runs 
from 24-9-1969 to 18-2-1979. 


To find out which of these two anthras will give the result, 
we have to judge who is stronger. Rahu is a node. It represents 
both Jupiter and Venus (i.e. lord of rasi, star and lagna in ruling 
planets). Therefore Rahu is stronger than Mars who is only 
day-lord in the ruling planets. 


Therefore Rahu anthra will give second marriage. To pin- 
point the exact date of marriage consider the transit of the dasa 
lord Venus. 


Venus transits Jupiter sub in Rahu star Swathi in the sign 
Tula owned by Venus on 13-11-1969. The dav is Thursday 
owned by Jupiter. Moon transits Venus star Purvashada in 
Jupiter sign Dhanu on this day. Therefore you will surely have 
your second marriage on 13.11-1969. 


168 


Appeal—Successful or not 


If the sub-lord of the third cusp is deposited in the constel- 
lation of a planet which is the significator of 6 and 11 then one 
will have success. But if the sub-lord of the 3rd cuspls deposit- 
ed in the constellation of a planet who is the significator of the 


houses 5 and 12, one cannot have success. 
Negotiation—Successful or not 


“When will the negotiation mature ?” 
“What for ?” 


“Regarding my business. Why should you know _ this, 
Sir.” 


“The houses which I have to take for judgement depends 
on the query. If it is for marriage, I have to consider 7th 
house other than 3 and 9: If it is for adoption of a child, 5th 
house, other than 3 and 9, if it is for business and take over an 
industry, you have to judge houses 10, 6, 3, and 9 When the 
significators promise and conjointly operate, then only you can 
take over ; prior to that the negotiation will mature.” “Alright: 
Please mention a number between | and 249”. 


“63”. 


“Good. 63 means that the Ascendant should be between 
O° Cancer to 0° 33' 20' Cancer. It is Moon's sign, Jupiter 
star, Moon sub.” Now I have to erect a horoscope for Calcutta 
latitude, presuming 0° Cancer Nirayana rises in the East. 
Raphael Table of houses furnish Sayana position. Therefore, 
add Krishnamurti ayanamsa for the Nirayana position of the 
Ascendant obtained for Number 63=Cancer 0°. Now _ the 
ayanamsa is 23° 30'. So for Calcutta Latitude of 22° 33' refer 
the column in page 42, left hand corner at the top. You find 
that the position of other cusps are given for 23° 11' in the 18th 
line. We want for 23° 20' te. 9' more. The ascendants moves 
53'n about 4 minutes; for 8', one sixth time is needed. The 
other cusps move by 1° in those 4 minutes. Therefore one-sixth 
of the difference is 10'. Add 10' to each cusp given. Then 


169 


Sayana 2nd cusp will be 18° 10'; 3rd cusp 15° 10' 10th cusp 17° 
10°, 11th cusp 20° 10'; 12th cusp 23° 10'; Deducting ayanamsa 
to get Nirayana position 2nd cusp will be 24° 50' Cancer; 3rd 
cusp 21° 50' Leo ; 4th, 23° 50’ Virgo; 5th, 26° 50' Libra; 6th 0° 
Sagittarius; 7th 0° Capricorn and so on. 


So, draw a map and then insert the position of planets for 


6-30 A.M. LS.T on Sun- 

XII 0* 
day 6-7-69 (Here no Sat. 23-40] 7. 5_46| Mercury 
latitude, no longitude Al 26-50 } Bees : 
need be taken). 

Dasa_ balance: Saturn Asc. 0* 
Dasa 3 years 6 months 1124*50' 


6 days, i.e., Saturn Dasa 
Rahu Bhukthi is to run 


for O yr. 11 months and vee III 21° 50' 
24 days : Venus Anthra 
is running. It has to run 
for 5 months and 8 days. Mats. a cshan 
Then follows Sun Anthra 8-24 
and so on. 
Negotiation to be made by a native is ascertained from the 


significator of the 3rd house; whether it is promised or not is 
found from the sub-lord of the 3rd cusp. 





7th house denotes with when the negotiation is carried on. 
The third therefrom shows whether he will conclude, te., the 
9th house to the native. 


Giving away one’s possession is shown by 12th house. 
Now the other person is to give away his industry. This is 
indicated by 6th house. 


As this is to do business later, by the native, include 10th 
house. 


Moon shows the mind ; ie., the nature of the query. It 
is in 9 : It is in the constellation of the planet, Saturn,, in 10: 
sub of Rahu in 9 who is to give the results of 1, 3, 6, 9 and 10. 


170 


Wonderful: Note how mysteriously his mind is clearly Indicated 
by Moon. 


Will his negotiation be successful ? Find out the sub-lord 
of the 3rd cusp. It is in Jupiter sub: Venus constellation. 
Both in direct motion occupying 3 and 11. So negotiation must 
be successful. 

“When ?” 

“3rd house: Sun and Rahu are in Jupiter star: None in 
Kethu star. 

6th house; None in Rahu star; again take Sun, Rahu and 
Jupiter. 

9th house; Rahu and Moon in 9 ; Take both as none is in 
their star. 

10th house : Moon is in Saturn star; Saturn.” 


As Saturn is one of the significators prefer the last date to 
take over, and the other previous dates for success bit by bit 
and progress in the various stages during negotiation. 


(a) Saturn Dasa Rahu Bhukti Sun Anthra Moon Shook- 
shma 17-12-1969. 

(b) Saturn—Rahu Sun, Rahu, 25-12-1969. 

(c) Saturn—Rahu, Moon, Rahu 12-2-1970. 

(d) Saturn—Rahu, Moon, Sun 26-4-1940. 

Therefore, to agree, to pay advance, to register and to pay 


the full amount and to run the show after re-organising, the 
above 4 dates are promised. 


“You always talk about ruling planets. But you have not 
taken them". 


“T had in my mind while working. Alright what is today 
Sun: Who is the lord of the ascendantMoon : What is the 
star—Uthrapadra governed by Saturn: Rail, Meena owned by 
Jupiter but Rahu acts as an Agent. 


Therefore Sun, Moon, Rahu and Saturn are the ruling 
planets. They are also the significators. Therefore the above 
dates must and must come correct. 


171 
Interview 


Interview means that two people have to meet and discuss. 
The consultant wishes to see the person. His desire is to be 
fulfilled. 


Therefore one should judge the houses 3 (for meeting, inter- 


view, discussion), the 3rd to the seventh le., the 9th; and the 
11th houses. 


The sub-lord of the llth if tenanted in a constellation the 
lord of which is in direct motion, sooner or later he will have 
the interview. But if the sub'-lord of the 11th is deposited in the 
constellation of a planet in retrograde motion, he cannot have 
the interview. 


If one takes the ruling planets and works out, the person is 
to wait till that position of the zodiac ascends in the east which 
is governed by the ruling planets deposited in the constellation 
of those in direct motion. But the interview will be denied if 
they are deposited in the constellation of those in _ retrograde 
motion. 


Astrology being a divine science, invariably, in all cases 
both the methods will give the same answer. It is a wonderful 
science. All the scholars and students following K.P. will give 
the same answer, as mathematics. Simple and_ straightforward 
method producing the same results even though the astrologers 
are different. Only when there are thousands of slokas and each 
interprets as he wishes, each astrologer will vary and _ give 
different results and the consultant will be confused further. 


Is the report true or false ? 


One is to judge the third house for any information or 
correspondence or communication or report. 


We have to find out the sub-lord of the third cusp ; note in 
which constellation the sub-lord is deposited. If the lord of the 
constellation in which the sub-lord is deposited happen to be 
Saturn, the report is false ; But if it is Mars then it is mischie- 


172 


vous and false. If it is Jupiter, it is true; and if the lord 
happens to be any planet connected with Saturn in any manner, 
the report is false ; but connected with Jupiter, the report will 
be correct. This is the way to find out whether a rumour is 
believable or not. 


According to the Western System, note what the matter 
is. Whom does it refer? Find out the house which signifies 
the matter or the person. If the lord of that house is in an 
angular sign or if it be aspected by benefics the report is true* 
If any planet is deposited in that house which signifies the matter 
and receives favourable aspect from benefics, the report is true. 
Otherwise it is false. 


On 30th July, 1919 1 reached Delhi. To pay respect to me 
and also to ascertain whether the rumour which my friend heard 
was true or false my friend Rao came to my chambers. After 
enquiring about my welfare, he began to put the query in a polite 
way. I asked him to give a number. He said 21. Then I 
worked out the chart which is as follows :— 


The third cusp is in 


are poe 11 25-14 on 19 degrees 14 minutes. 
28-26-40 It means it is in Mercury 

sign Rahu star and Mars 

XII12-14 Mer. 2-26 | sub. The sub-lord of the 
Nees ete third cusp, Mars is in 
30—7—1963 Scorpio in 11 degrees 36 

3-32 P.M. minutes ic., in Saturn’s 


constellations. Therefore 
I replied that this parti- 
cular rumour was not 
VIII 25-14 VII correct. Since the sub- 
IA T9-1A | Mars | 28-26-40 | Jup. lord is Mars and is in 
the constellation of 
Saturn in 12 it should be a mischief of that friend and it is more 
to tempt you. Later my statement was found to be true. What 
the jealousy friend was confirmed, to be false. 





173 


Exchanging Commodities 
“Shall I exchange my article profitably” is the question. 


It means you are doing transaction with another. Ascen- 
dant denotes you ; whereas 7th house Indicates the other person. 
Whether you will be benefited or not is to be judged from the 
houses 2, 6 and 11. But if the significators of the houses 5, 8 
and 12 were to operate then that is the time when you have to 
lose by such an exchange. Therefore one is to find out which 
period you are running and if that period is governed by the 
significator of 2, 6 and 11, you will make money. But if the 
period is governed by the significators of 5, 8 and 12, you 
must lose. 


In Horary Astrology please note the sub of the 6th cusp. 
If the sub-lord of the 6th cusp is deposited in the constellation 
of a planet which is the significator of 6 or 11, you gain. But 
if It is the significator of 5 or 12, by so exchanging you must 
lose ; the other person must gain. 


Because, when you exchange the other person had to give 
you something. Whether the other person loses, or not should 
be first judged, so the above rule will reveal whether he will lose 
or gain. Similarly also you have a sub-lord of the 12th cusp. 
If the sub-lord of the 12th cusp is deposited in the constellation 
of the significators of 6 and 11, you gain. But if the sub-lord 
of the Izth is in the constellation of a planet, signifying 5 and 
12, definitely you must incur loss. 


Is Journalism good for me? 


Third house represents Journalism. Jupiter and Mercury 
are the two planets which indicate Journalism. 


According to Westerners the good aspects between Moon 
Mercury and Jupiter indicate that it is favourable for Journalism. 


Virgo and Pisces are said to be the signs favourable. 


According to KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI if one has 
the desire to become a Journalist and he puts the query, one has 
to judge whether the sub-lord of the 11th cusp (indicating his 


174 


success Is deposited In the constellation of a planet which is the 
significator of the houses 3 and 9 and if the sub-lord is in any 
manner connected with Jupiter or Mercury or both. If the 
sub-lord happens to be Venus, one will be writing much about 
the marriage, sex, love affairs, Chemistry etc. But if it is Jupiter, 
most sensible and useful articles will be written and the books 
published will be popular. Considering the natural quality of 
the planet one has to fix the subject of the book which one will 
write. 


Will my 3rd son construct a building ? 


Balance of Venus Dasa 
VIII 11-43 


IX 11-43 
Ven 28-55 


Saturn 
15-05 


Sun 10-44 
XI 11-43 
Merc. 
16-07 


VI 12-43 27-7-1969 


1-40 P.M.LS.T. 
18° 55'N 


16 years 9 months and 
7 days. 


The querist asked this 
question, gave the num- 
ber 114 within 249. 


No. 114 The number given by 
Ayanamsa 23° 20! 
XII 12-43} querist shows his lagna. 
The query is about his 
third son. The first child 
Ketu 4-38 . 
Moon II 11-43 Jun. 8-24 is shown by the 5th 
15-29 Man II 11-43 t 
IV 11-43 | 10-47 agna house counted from 


11-53-20 





lagna. Younger brother 

or sister is shown by the 3rd house. The second child is there- 
fore shown by 3rd to 5th, i.e. 7th from lagna and, similarly, the 

third is shown by 3rd to 7th, ie. 9th from lagna. Therefore 
the lagna of the third child is the 9th house, i.e. Rishaba 11° 43". 


The 4th house shows one’s own house, landed property, 
estate, etc. The 11th house shows fulfilment of desire and 
the 12th shows investment. Therefore the houses to be judged 
for construction of a building are 4, 11 and 12. 


If it is a house already constructed and is to be bought off 
Straight, judge the houses 6 and 9 also. Why ? Because one 
who is seller is shown by the 7th house, The 6th is 12th to 7th 


175 


and the 9th is 12th to 4th counted from 7th house. Further the 
houses 9 and 3 indicate surrounding the premises by the previous 
party and entry the new house by the purchaser. 


For the purchase of the plot of land the same rules do apply. 


Whether one will be able to construct a house at all, is to 
be seen from the 4th cusp. So, judge whether the sub lord of 
the 4th cusp is either retrograde or deposited in the constellation 
whose lord is retrograde. If either is retrograde then one will 
not be able to construct a house. If the sub lord of the 4th 
cucp and the lord of the constellation in which it is deposited are 
in direct motion and if the sub lord is also a significator of 
either 4th or [hh or 12th house, then one will be able to cons- 
truct a building. 


The horary chart for the number 114 will the twelve cusps 
for Bombay and the planetary position at the time of judgment, 
i.e. at 1-40 P.M. LS.T. on 27-7-1969 is given above. 


We have to judge the 4th house of the third child. The 
4th from 9th is the 12 from querist’s lagna. Therefore we 
have to judge the 12th cusp. It is 12° 43’ in Simha, ie. in Sun 
sign Kethu star and Mercury sub. The sub-lord Mercury is not 
retrograde. It is deposited in the constellation of Saturn who 
is also not retrograde. Saturn is deposited in 12th bhava, 
counted from the lagna of the third child. Therefore Mercury 
(posited in the constellation of Saturn) is also a significator of 
12th house of the third child. Therefore the building will be 
constructed in the name of the third soft. 


As the father and his third child want to live in the same 
house, the 4th cusp of father and that of the third son must be 
connected to each other. The 4th cusp from the querist’s lagna 
is 11° 43' Dhanur, i.e. Jupiter sign Kethu star and Mercury sub. 
The 4th cusp from the third child is in Sun sign Kethu star and 
Mercury sub. Therefore the sub lord and the lord of the cons- 
tellation of 4th cusp of both the father and the child are Mercury 
and Kethu respectively. Therefore their dwelling place will 
be same, J— ' 


176 


As the sub-lord of 4th cusp from the querist’s lagna is 
deposited in IIth bhava, the desire of the querist will be 
fulfilled. 


Now let us find out the time of the event. The houses is to 
be constructed for third child. Therefore houses 4, 11 and 12 
from 9th are to be considered. They are 12th, 7th and 8th 
respectively; from the querist’s lagna. 


12th house is occupied by Jupiter and Ketu, 7th by none 
and 8th by Saturn. Rahu is posited in the Jupiter star. Sun, 
Mars and Mercury are in Saturn star and none is in Kethu star. 


12 house is owned by Sun, 7th by Jupiter and 8th by 
. Mars. Jupiter is already considered above. Kethu and Jupiter 
are deposited in Sun’s stars and Venus is in Mars star. 


Therefore the significators are Rahu, Kethu, Jupiter, Sun, 
Mars, Mercury and Venus. Which of these significators are 
beneficial and which are just temptors is to be found out from 
the ruling planets at the moment of judgment. 


Ruling planets: Today is Sunday ruled by Sun. The 
sign transited by Moon is Dhanus owned by Jupiter. The star 
transited by Moon is owned by Venus. The lagna is Tulam 
owned by Venus. As Kethu is conjoined with Jupiter and Rahu 
occupies Jupiter sign Pisces, take Rahu and Kethu also. 


One should not accept these ruling planets as it is. Check 
up whether any of them is posited either in the constellation or 
sub of a_ retrograde planet. If there is any, reject it and 
accept the remaining. 


In the present case none of the ruling planets is dpeosited 
either in the constellation or sub of a retrograde planet. There- 
fore the beneficial ruling planets are Sun, Jupiter, Venus, Rahu 
and Kethu. They will give the result during their conjoined 
period. 


Dasa: Venus Dasa balance is 16 years 9 months and 
7 days. In this Rahu Bhukti will run from 4-7-1973 to 4-7-1976. 
During this period you will finish construction of your house in 


177 


the antras of either Jupiter or Kethu or Sun. Jupiter is a ruling 
planet. Not only this, it is also the constellation lord of the 
lagna at the moment of judgment. Further it is the lord of 
11th house counted from the lagna of the third son. Therefore 
Jupiter Antra will give a finished house. This runs from 
16-12-W3 to 10-5-1974. 


Transit: We have now to see whether transit agrees during 
this period. Consider the transit of Sun. Sun transits Venus 
star in Jupiter sign Dhanus in December 1973. Therefore transit 
agrees during this period and so you will construct your building 
during this period. 


From which date the querist will start living in the new 
house? The present house of the native is shown by the 4th 
house. The 3rd house shows changing the present place of 
residence Mars owns 3rd house. There is no planet in_ the 
3rd bhava. Venus is in Mars star. Therefore Venus has to give 
3rd house results also. Therefore you will change the present 
place of residence and start living in the new house when Sun 
transits Venus sub in Jupiter sign Venus star on 28-12-1973. 
1974 is the most pleasant and prosperous New Year and on the 
New Year day, you will be in your own new house. 


When will I sell my property? Good price or what? 


Balance of Sun Dasa 5 VI 3-06 


5 fie and 25 IV-11-06 Mer. 9-09 
years 5 mopths an 1119-06 |Sat. 14-04] V8-06 | 0%. 


Rahu 1-15 Moon Ven. 9-24 
days. 27-49 


Property is indicated 
by the 4th house, coun- 


VII 
29-13-20 


ted from lagna. The 3rd 9_7—1969 
house is 12th to 4th ee 


house. One who pur- No. 188 

chases the property is Ayanamsa 29°20" | TAG 
shown by the 7th house. 
The houses 10 and 5 are 


respectively 4th (pro- Lagna | ntars 8-23 Kethu 1-15 
29-13-20 - Jup. 5-53 
perty) and 11 th (fulfil- XII 3-06 XI 8 06 ee IX 9-06 





ment of his desire 
H.A.-25 


178 


counted from 7th house. Therefore selling away property is 


shown by the houses 3, 5 and 10 counted from lagna of the 
consultant. 


You want to sell away your property. Anyone with whom 
you deal is shown by the 7th house. Whether he will be able to 
purchase your property or not is to be seen from the 4th cusp 
counted from 7th, ie. 10th cusp counted from lagna. Judge 
whether the sublord of the 10th cusp is either retrograde or 
deposited in the constellation whose lord is retrograde. If the 
sub-lord is retrograde wait. If the lord of constellation in which 
sub-lord is deposited, is retrograde, then you will not be able to 
sell the property. If they are in direct motion and if this sub- 
lord is also a significator of either 3rd or 10th house, then you 
can and will sell. 


The 10th cusp is Tulam 11°6' 1e., in Venus sign Rahu star 
and Saturn sub. The sub-lord Saturn is not retrograde. It is 
deposited in the constellation of Venus who is also. not 
retrograde. Venus is deposited in 5th bhava. It owns the houses 
5 and 10. There is no planet in the [Oth bhava Therefore the 
sub-lord of 10th cusp. 


(i) is not retrograde, 


(ii) is deposited in the constellation whose lord is not 
retrograde, and 


(iii) is also the significator of houses 5 and 10. 


Therefore you will sell. 


Houses 3, 5 and 10 are to be judged for selling and 3 and 12 
for giving possession. 


The rules applicable to sell land or building are the same 
The 3rd house is unoccupied. Jupiter owns it. Rahu and Kethu 
represent Jupiter as Kethu is conjoined with it and Rahu occupies 
its sign Meena. 


(This is how nodes represent the planets) 


179 


Therefore planets in the constellation of Jupiter, Rahu and 
Kethu will be strong significators of 3rd house. This does not 
mean that Rahu, Kethu and Jupiter cannot give 3rd_ house 
results They can also give. But the planets in their stars are 
Stronger to give the results. (Tenant stronger.) Sun and Rahu 
are in Jupiter star. Mercury is in Rahu star and none is in 
Kethu star. Therefore Sun, Rahu, Mercury, Jupiter and Kethu 
are the significators of 3rd house. 


Sth house is occupied by Venus. No planet is in 10th 
bhava. Venus owns both 5th and 10th house. Saturn is in 
the constellation of Venus. Therefore Saturn is a strong signifi- 
cator of both the houses 5 and 10. 


12th house is unoccupied. Its owner is Jupiter. Therefore 
the planets Sun, Rahu, Mercury, Jupiter and Kethu are the 
significators of 12th house also. 


Finally the significators of houses 3, 5 and 10 are Sun, 
Rahu, Mercury, Jupiter, Kethu and Saturn. 


Sun Dasa balance is 5 years 5 months and 26 days. In this 
Rahu Bhukti operates between 29-12-1970 and 23 1-1971. Both 
Sun and Rahu are significators. Yet, during this period, you 
will not be able to sell your property. Why? Because Saturn 
and Moon are together in one sign. Whenever Saturn and 
Moon are together in one sign, it is called “Poonaraphoo’. This 
implies that the event will materialise on subsequent attempts. 
That is why you will not be able to sell away your property 
during Sun Dasa Rahu Bhukti. In Sun Dasa Saturn Bhukti you 
will make frequent attempts to dispose. This period runs from 
11-11-1971 to 23-10-1972. 


During this period you will enter into an agreement during 
Mercury Anthra between 5-1-1972 and 23-2-B72 (Mercury is 
for agreement and also strong significator of 3rd house? and 
finally hand over the possession of your property in Kethu 
Anthra during 23-2-1972 and 13-3-1972. 


180 


It does not allow others to give; it drags on till its period 
or sub-period passes. In its sub period and the sub sub-period 
of another significator, it offers desirable results. Saturn is a 
foolhardy mother-in-law, who was in the bath room. Some 
persons came for donation Son wanted to give Rs. 5/-Daughter- 
in-law had the mind to add one-more five. When the mother- 
in-law was informed, she ordered “Wait, where is _ the 
hurry ?" Then she came out after bath, drees, make up etc., 
and gave Rs. 15/-. Thus Saturn will behave. 


The exact dates will be found out from transit of Sun. 


(i. Date of agreement will be 20-1-1972 when Sun 
transits Saturn sign Sun star Mercury sub. 


(11) Date of giving actual possession will be 11-3-1972 
when Sun transits Saturn sign Jupiter star Kethu 
sub. 


To find out whether the property will be sold for good 
price or not we have to judge the dasa lord. It is Sun. It Is 
deposited in the constellation of Jupiter. Jupiter is deposited 
in 8th bhava and owns 12th Therefore Sun is a significator of 
houses 8 and 12. Both the houses 8 and 12 are favourable to 
the purchaser and therefore purchaser gains. 


“So, I will lose in the transaction.” An an_ astrologer, 
I do not want to say that you will lose. It is implied. 


Astrologers generally are devotees of some God or 
Goddess. Vak Siddhi will be there. So mostly talk in the 
affirmative; let the negative be implied. If one asks “Has 
the newspaperwala come” do not reply, “No” say, he is 
coming. If one asks whether you would be going to office on 
that day and if you are on leave, say ‘I go only tomorrow~. 
Do not reply ‘No. If one wants to have change for a 
Hundred Rupee note and you do not have do not say “Sorry” 
Say “Shall 1 get you from my friend”. 


181 
When can I have a Vehicle ? Bicycle, Motor-cycle or Car ? 


Balance of Kethu Dasa Saturn (R) 
25-44 Moon 
2 years. 8 months. 7 days. | 11 °5;¢397 | 3-13. | 1v 20-30 | V_ 15-30 
Rahu If] 23-20 


Vehicle : 12-55 
Vehicle is considered | 
Asc. VI 12-30 

to be a permanent pos- 14-26-40 1—12—1968 - 

: ; '5-30P.M. 
session, even though it LST. 18.55N 
can be sold and cashed No. 217 
at any time. So. one is }yqy 42.39| “¥@namsa 23° 19° VII 


to judge the 4th house - 14-26-40 


which also indicates the = }——————-————__—______—_. 

X 20-30 Jup. 9-03 
mother, the land, te “i eassesolsin 1603 4594.30 | Ket 2-3 
building one’s education, { XI 15-30| Mercury “"" |Mars 20-05 
furniture etc. 12-57 VIN 21-30 


It is necessary to find out whether it refers to vehicle or to 
any of the other matters. 


Only Krishnamurti Padhdhati is useful to pinpoint. If the 
sub-lord of the 4th cusp in the Horary Chart is either Venus be- 
ing the significator of 4 or if the sub-lord is deposited in the 
constellation of the significator of the 4th who has any connec- 
tion with Venus, one will have either a vehicle or buy some 
furniture. tVenus, if not the significator of 4 it can’t indicate 
though it is said to be the chief governor of vehicle.) 


Again to differentiate between these two. judge as follows ; 
If the sub-loid or the lord of the constellation in which the 
sub-lord is deposited (being the significator af the 4th and also 
connected with Venus) were to be deposited in a movable sign, it 
shows vehicle. 


But if it is in a common sign. it may be vehicle or cradle- 
like furniture which can move to and fro. 


But if it is in a fixed sign, it is only furniture. 


If the sub-lord of the 4th is Mars or if the sub-lord is 
deposited in a constellation who is the significator of the 4th 


>4 


182 


and in any manner connected with Mars, it refers to land or 
building 


If the sub-lord is Moon or if the sub-lord is deposited in the 
constellation of a planet who is the significator of the 4th and 
is in any manner connected with Moon, the mother is indica- 
ted by the 4ta. 


If the sub-lord of the 4tb cusp is Jupiter or Mercury, or if 
the sub-lord is in the constellation of the planet who is the 
significator of the 4th and is any manner connected with either 
Jupiter or Mercury or both, the matter refers to one’s education 


If the sub lord of the 4th cusp is Saturn or if the sub-lord is 
in the constellation of a planet which is the significator of the 4th 
and also connected with Saturn, it refers to mine, mine products, 
excavation, treasure etc. 


Thus we have to differentiate. 


Will the vehicle be 2 wheeled or 3 wheeled or 4 wheeled 
or multi, like train or 6 or 8 wheeled lormes etc , or two 
wheeled ship or the flying helicopter or plane may be the next 
question. 


1. If it is a bicycle, manual labour is needed. Hence Saturn 
will be connected with the significators indicating purchase of a 
vehicle. 


2. If it is a motor cycle, there is the machinery ; petrol or 
oil is used. Hence the significator should be connected with 
Mars, Venus and Moon. Venus and Moon indicate petrol, Mars 
machinery. 


3. If it is 4 wheeled one, then also these three planets 
should be connected with those significators who promise the 
purchase of the vehicle. 


4 If the significator of the fourth house promising pur- 
chase of a vehicle is deposited in the sub, the lord of which is in 
any of the signs Gemini, Virgo, first half of Sagittartus or Aqua- 
rius .then it is two wheeled. 


5. If the significator indicating purchase of a vehicle and if 
it were to be in the sub, the lord of which is deposited in bestial 
or 4 legged sign, or its constellation lord, then it can be car 
and anything similar to it. Aries, Taurus, Leo, second half of 
Sagittarius and Capricorn are the bestial signs : 4 wheeled. 


6. If the significator of the purchase of the car is connected 
with Saturn, it shows self-drive. If it is connected with Jupiter 
there is a driver appointed. If both Jupiter and Saturn are con- 
nected sometimes he himself will drive and sometimes the driver. 
If the significator of the fourth is also the significator of 2, 6 and 
10 he will buy one and drive for other’s use like one’s own taxi 
or private tourist car. If the significator if also connected with 
Rahu or Kethu and is also the significator of 10 then he uses the 
office car. 


7. If the significator is deposited in the sub of a planet 
who is the significator of the 4th house and it is in the constella- 
tion ruled by a planet, deposited in the watery sign, it may be a 
boat-hand driven, if Saturn is one of the planets or if Mars, Venus 
and Moon are connected motor boat. If only Mars and Moon 
are connected it should be driven on steam when it will be a 
ship. Saturn shows submarine. If the significator of tne 4th house 
is very strong and it is deposited in the sub of a planet deposited 
in the constellation of one occupying airy sign, one will buy 
aeroplane or helicopter. This significator should be connected 
with Mars, Venus and Moon. 


Thus if one calmly studies, he can find out the difference. 
One can have many if Mercury and dual sign are connected with 
the significators. 


Number given is 217. The horoscope is as follows. 


The 4th cusp is Rishaba 20° 31' ie. in Venus sign Moon 
star and Venus sub. The sub-lord Venus is deposited in the 
second half of Dhanus. Dhanus is a common sign and _ its 
second half falls in a bestial or four legged sign. Further Mars 
aspects Venus by its 4th aspect. Therefore you will have a four- 
wheeled vehicle. 


184 


The next step is to find out significators of 4. 9. 10 and 11. 
The significators of all the houses are tabulated as under: 


a 











- 





House Planets signifying 
significators houses 


a 


I Sun, Mercury, Saturo, Rahu, Sun 1, 2, 7, 9, 12. 


Kethu Moon 2, 3, 5, 6, 7. 
II Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, 8, 9, 10. 
Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu, Kethu. Mars 2, 3, 6, 7, 10. 
Til Moon, Mars, Rahu, Kethu. Mercury 1, 2, 5, 8, 9 
IV Venus. 12. 
V Moon, Mercury, Saturn, Jupiter 2, 7, 9, 11. 
Rahu, Ke:hu. Venus 4, [1 
VI Moon, Mars, Rahu, Kethu. Saturn 1, 2, 5, 8, 9, 
VII Sun, Moon, Mars, Jupiter, 12. 
Rahu, Kethu. Rahu-All houses except 
VIII Moon, Mercury, Saturn, the 4th. 
Rahu, Kethu. Kethu-All houses except 
IX Sun, Moon, Mercury, the 4-th 
Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu, 
Kethu. 


X Moon, Mars, Rabu, Kethu. 
XI Moon, Jupiter, Venus, 
Rahu, Kethu. 
XII Sun, Mercury, Saturn, Rabu, 
Kethu. 





From the above table It can be seen that the significators 
of the houses 4. 9. 10 and 11 are Sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury. 
Jupiter. Venus, Saturn. Rahu and Kethu; all the nine planets 
signify. When so much group signifies the best course and the 
only scientific method is to go for ruling planets and find out the 
common between the significators and the ruling planets The 
ruling planets are the lords of the day. M on sign, star and lagana 
at the moment of judgment. 


* The day is Sunday ruled by Sun. Moon, transits Kethu star 
Aswini in the sign Aries owned by Mars. The lagna is Rishaba 
owned by Venus. 


185 


All the ruling planets are not always beneficial. Those which 
are in the constellation or sub of a retrograde planet will not 
give results. Sun is in the constellation of retrograde Saturn. 
Reject it. Others are in the constellation and sub of planets 
in direct motion. Take them. They are Kethu, Mars and 
Venus. 


They will give you car during their conjoined period. 


According to dasa-bhukti at the time of judgment Kethu 
Dasa balance is 2 years, 8 months and 7 days from 1-12-68. 
The bhukties which are still to operate are those of Jupiter, 
Saturn and Mercury. None of them is a ruling planet. Next 
comes Venus Dasa. (Venus is the strongest in the ruling planets, 
as it is the lord of the lagna. In ruling planets, always the lord 
of lagna is stronger than the lord of the star, the lord of star is 
stronger than the lord of Moon sign and the lord of Moon 
sign is stronger than the lord of the day. Venus Dasa Venus 
bhukti runs between 8-8-1971 and 8-12-1974. In this you will 
get vehicle either in Mars Anthra or in Kethu Anthra. Mars is 
the lord of Moon sign in the ruling planets. But Kethu is the 
lord of the constellation. So Kethu is stronger than Mars 
and therefore Kethu Anthra will give you car. It runs 
between 28-9-1974 and 8-12-1974. 


To find out the exact date of purchase of car consider the 
transit of Sun. Sun transits Venus sign Mars star Kethu sub 
on 18-10-1974. Therefore you must have the vehicle on _ this 
date only (Never earlier—nor later). 


When can 1 dispose may vehicle? 


Number 37 was given at Bombay <Lat. 19°-56' N) at 7-30 
P.M. LS.T. on 19-4-1969 by the consultant. 


The 12 cusps for this number for the Latitude of Bombay 
and the planetary position for the above dale and time are as 
follows : 


186 





Venus (R)) Sat. 5-22 jay oon'g.27 Purchase of a vehicle 
sat un aay Lagna | IL 17-20} is to be judged from the 
Rahu 5-22| XII 19-20| 72°40 houses 4, 9, 10 and 11. 
Se es because 4th house shows 


vehicle, houses 9 and 10. 





” Ill 13-20 . . : 
enh’ 19—4— 1969 7 ' show enjoyment in this 
7-30 P.M. 18.T : Ben sh 
18-55 N birth due to meritorious 
No. 37 deeds done in the previ- 
A 23° 20° ; 
IX 13-20 aii [V 11-20 ous birth and the 11th 
house indicates fulfilment 
= of one’s desire. 
Ma Jup. (R) 
17-20| 23.04 | vi 19-20 |, 427 
i VIL 22-401 a em The number given by 


pera the consultant denotes 
his lagna. Anybody with whom he transacts is shown by _ the 
7th house If the consultant wants to sell his car, the 7th 
house shows the purchaser. Houses 4, 9, 10 and 11 counted 
from the 7th house are 10, 3, 4 and 5. Therefore the houses 
to be judged for disposal of vehicle are 3. 4. 5 and 10. Sale 
of a car by one means its purchase and possession by another. 


To find out the time of disposal of the vehicle, one should 
workout the significators of the houses 3. 4. 5 and |0. find out 
the ruling planets at the moment of judgment. take out the 
common planets between the significator and the ruling planets 
and then calculate the dasa ohukti period of these common 
planets and dually pinpoint the exact date and time by transit. 


The significators of the houses 3, 4. 5 and 10 are Moon, 
Sun, Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu. Kethu. Mars. Mercury. Venus; 
so all the nine planets signify. 


To-day is Saturday ruled by Saturn. The sign transited by 
Moon is Rishaba owned by Venus. The constellation transited 
by Moon is Krittika ruled by Sun and the lagna is Tulam ruled 
by Venus. Venus has come twice in the ruling planets. once as 
lord of Moon sign and once as lord of lagna. Not only that. 
the number given by him also falls in Rishaba. So Venus is a 
very strong ruling planet. Why should the consultant come 


187 


to-day to put his query when Venus is so strongly signifying? 
This is because his query is about vehicle and Venus governs 
Vahana. (It may be to buy or sell.) So he comes when Venus 
is Strongly signifying. 


Rahu is conjoined with Venus in Meena and Kethu is 
aspected by Venus by its 7th aspect. Therefore Rahu and Kethu 
will also give the results of Venus. (Node ‘first’ gives the 
results of the planet or planets with which it is conjoined, then 
the results of the planet in whose constellation it is deposited, 
then of the planets aspecting it and lastly of the planet in whose 
star and sign it is deposited. ) 


Therefore the ruling planets are Saturn, Venus, Sun, Rahu 
and Kethu 


Of these ruling planets, see if any one is deposited either in 
the constellation or sub of a retrograde planet. If there is any, 
then reject it and take the remaining as the ruling planets. 


None of the ruling planets is deposited either in the 
constellation or sub of a retrograde planet. So all are to be 
taken. Venus is by itself retrograde. But this does not prevent 
it from giving results all throughout. However, it cannot give 
as long as it is retrograde. Once it becomes direct it will give. 


Now check up how many of the ruling planets are also the 
significators of the houses 3, 4, 5 and 10 All the ruling planets 
are significators. Therefore you will sell your vehicle during 
their conjoined period. 


According to dasa-bhukti, Sun’s dasa balance is 0 years 8 
months and 11 days from 19-4-1969. In Sun Dasa, Venus Bhukti 
is already on. Venus is retrograde at present. As Venus will 
give results only after it becomes direct, find out when it 
becomes direct. It becomes direct on 30-4-1969. (So we have 
to consider the period only after this date.) Rahu Anthra will 
commence on 9-5-1969 and will run upto 3-7-1919. Venus is 
very strong ruling planet and Rahu conjoined with it is still 
stronger to give results. So in Rahu Anthra you will sell your 
vehicle. 


188 


Mood is the only significator of 3rd house. Third house 
is 12th to 4th. So in Moon Shpokshama, on a Moon star day 
the car will be sold and handed over to the purchaser. Moon 
sbookshtna runs between 21-6-1969 and 30-6-1969. On 23-6-1969 
Moon transits its own star Hasta. The day is Monday ruled 
by Moon. The exact time of handing over the vehicle to the 
purchaser on 23-6-1969 will be 3.30 P.M. when the lagna is 18° 
Tulam, i.e. Venus sign, Rahu star and Sun sub. (Need not be 
said that the prediction was 100% correct; otherwise this 
article will not be published). 


Will I sit for Competitive Examination 
What is the Result ? 


Number given by the consultant is 171 at Bombay at 7-30 
P.M.IS T. on 13-8-1969. 


Horoscope is as follows :— 


V 13-46 VII Balance of  Kethu 
IV 13-46 | Saturn | VI 9-46 Dasa 6 years 3 months 
pee Ven. and 18 dys. 


In cases of competitive 
13—8— 1969 - examination the points 

7-30 P.M. LS.T. 
18° 55° N 


to be seen are: 


No. 171 
Ayanamsa 23°20’ : 1. Whether he has 


the necessary cou- 


Ketu 29-23 rage to compete ? 


Lagna |Mars 16-26) py 13 4¢ | Jup 11-20 2. Whether he will 
ACAD ||| RHE 48 X 13-46 be able to appear ? 


and 





3. Whether he comes out successful? 


Whether one has the courage to compete is to be judged 
from the 3rd house. If the sub lord of the 3rd cusp is Moon. 
one tries to adjust himself in the present circumstances and does 
not take bold decisions. If it is Saturn one will be very cautious 
and lacks in confidence. If Mercury. the native will be in two 


189 


minds. Planets Sun, Mars, Jupiter and Venus as the sub-lord 
of cusp, however, give courage and confidence to compete. 


In your case, the 3rd cusp falls in Kumbha 9°46' ie., Saturn 
sign Rahu star and Jupiter sub. As the sub lord of 3rd is Jupi- 
ter, it will give you courage and confidence to appear for the 
examination. 


Whether one will be able to appear for the examination or 
not is to be seen from the horary lagna. One may have courage 
to compete but may not be able to appear for the examination 
because of certain unavoidable difficulties or obstacles like 
illness, etc. at the time of competitive examination. If the 
horary lagna is spoiled due to the deposition of natural malefics 
or lord of 6 or 8 or 12, the native, will not be able to make an 
attempt. If, however, the lagna is not spoiled, the native will 
be able to act as he likes. 


The horary lagna in the present case is Dhanus, owned by 
Jupiter. No natural malefic is deposited in lagna _ bbava. 
Lagnathipathi is a natural benefic. Therefore you will sit for the 
exmination. 


For competitive examination the houses to be judged are 
4, 9 and 11. A doubt may arise in somebody’s mind as to 
which houses be judged for second or third or fourth attempt. 
The answer is that whether one is appearing for the first attempt 
or the second or the third, ever we have to judge the houses 4, 
9 and 11. (For child birth see the 5th house for the first 
conception, 7th house—being the 3rd counted from 5th—for the 
second conception, 9th house for the 3rd issue and so on. But 
in case of examination one should not see, which bouse for the 
first attempt, which for the second and so on.) 


Whether one will be successful in the competitive examina- 
tion or not is to be decided from the planets whose conjoined 
period he is running at the time of examination At that time 
if the dasa, bhukti and antra period governing planets are signi- 
ficator of houses 4, 9 and 11, you will come out successful, 
if not, you will fail. When significators conjointly operate then 
only one will get. Otherwise not. 


190 


You are appearing for the competitive examination in the 
month of September 1969 At that time, according to “asa- 
bhukti, you will be running Kethu Dasa Venus Bhukti and Mars 
anthra. Kethu is in 9th bhava in the constellation of Sun who is 
deposited in 8th bhava and owns 9th house. Therefore Kethu is 
to give results of both 8th and 9th bhava. 


When will Kethu give 8th house results and when it will give 
9th house results is to be decided from the result the bhukti 
and anthra lords have to give. If both the bhukti and anthra 
lords are to give the results of either 4th or 9th or 11th house, 
the dasa lord Ketu will give 9th house results. If either the 
bhukti or anthra lord is non-co-operative i.e. if it Is not a signifi- 
cator of 4th or 9th or 11th house, then Kethu will also turn 
non-cc-operative and give 8th house results. 


The bhukti lord Venus is deposited in the constellation of 
Rahu who is in 3rd bhava. Rahu_ represents as it is 
deposited in the sign Kumbh i. Rahu also represents Moon and 
Mercury because they aspect Rahu. So Venus will give the 
result of ownership and deposition of Saturn, Mercury and 
Moon also. Saturn is deposited in 5th and owns 2nd & 3rd. 
Moon is deposited in 8th and owns 8th Mercury is deposited 
in 9th and owns 7th and 10th. Therefore Venus has, along 
with other portfolios the 9 h house portfolio also. Therefore 
Venus will co-operate with Kethu to give 9th house results if 
the anthra lord is a significator of either <ith or 9th or 11th 
house. 


Now let us see whether the anthra lord Mars co-operates. 
If Mars co-operates, \ou will come out successful. If it is 
non-co-operative, you will fail. 


Mars is in the constellation of Saturn. Saturn is in 5th 
and owns 2nd & 3rd houses. Mars by itself is in 12th bhava 
and owns 5th and 12th houses. Therefore Mars is in no way 
to give results of any of the houses 4, 9 and 11 and hence 
you will be invited to sit for subsequent examination. On 
this occasion, your colleagues will pass. 


191 
Any Treasure in my Building? 


If the sub-lord of the 4th cusp is deposited in a constellation, 
lord of which is the significator of the houses 2 or 11 or 6 one 
will surely have the treasure. Further the lord of the constella- 
tion should have any connection with Saturn in direct motion. 
According to traditional astrology if lord of 2 were to be in the 
8th house, one can come by treasure or if lords of 2, 4, 9 and 11 
conjoin, one have treasure. But in Horary astrology it is the 
sub-lord of the 4th house which will give a correct picture, when 
the question relates to Treasure. 


Will 1 get Admission in the College ? 


The 4th house indicates the educational institution and since 
his desire is to get admission, the 11th shows realisation of one’s 
ambition. Therefore, sub-lord of the 4th is to be deposited in the 
constellation, the lord of which is the significator of 4 and 11. 


Will my Love Affairs Materialise? 


If the sub-lord of the 5th cusp is deposited in the constella- 
tion of a planet who is the significator of the houses 7 and 11 
then materialisation of the love affairs is promised. But if the 
sub-lord of the 5th cusp happens to be in a constellation, the lord 
of which is the significator of the houses 6 or 12 then it will 
never materialise. If it is in the constellation of the significator 
of 6, the other party falls out. But if the sub-lord of the 5th is 
in the constellation of the planet signifying the 12th house then 
the consultant himself will drop the idea. 


Invalid Child—will it pick op Health? 


If the consultant is the parent of the child take 5th cusp 
indicating the child. If the sub-lord of the 5th cusp is deposited in 
a constellation, the lord of which is the significator of the houses 
3 and 5, the child will pick'up. But if the sub-lord of the 5th 
cusp is situated in a con: tellation the lord of which is the 
significator of the 10th house, who is also connected with Saturn 
in any manner, shows that the child cannot recover health at 
all, “It will be ever sickly.’ 


192 
Can_I_have_a_Partner_in my Business? 


If the sub-lord of the 8th cusp is situated in the constellation 
of a planet signifying houses 6 and Il. you can have a partner. 
But if the sub-lord of the 8th cusp is deposited in a constellation, 
the lord of which is the significator of the houses 5 and 12. 
never have a partner. 


Can I Prosper as an Actress or an Actor? 


If the sub-lord of the 5th cusp is deposited in a constellation 
of a planet who is the significator of the houses 5. 6 and 10 one 
can be popular as an Actor. It is also the significator of 11. one 
will be prosperous. If Mars is one of the planets signifying 
these houses. he can be a leader among'them. There is no 
inferiority complex. No stage fear. But Success alone. 


Any Child for me? Who is Sterile? 


a Balance of Mercury 


19 06 NApie | Vint6-36 VI! Dasa I year, J month and 
IV 21-36 11.26.40 | 23 days. 
SS Whether one is pro- 
Rahu29-55 VI 13-36! mused children or not is 
Ti 18-36 : “eee Sun 17-38{ to be judged from the 5th 
. ae —s cusp. One will be able 
2 No. 175 to produce children if the 
236, | a yee following three condi- 
tions are simultaneously 
———=+——| + satisfieds 
XIE 16-36 i) The sub-lord of 
eee Mars {XI 20-36 Jup. a () 
“26-40 | 42-47 X 21-36 the 5th cusp is not 
| a) ee retrograde. 


(i) It is not posited in a constellation of a retrograde 
Planet and 


(iii) It is a significator of either 2nd or Sth or 11th house. 


If any one of these three conditions is not satisfied, one 
will not be able to produce a child at all. 


193 


To judge the time of birth of child. one has to select the 
significators of houses 2. 5 and 11 and predict the time during 
the conjoined period of the signicators. 


The 5th cusp is very important to see whether one is 
capable of producing a child or not. The 11th house is the 5th 
house of the partner. Therefore the llth cusp shows whether 
the partner will be able<to produce children or not. If the 5th 
cusp shows that he can and he will have children and the 11th 
Shows that the partner cannot naturally. he will have children 
somewhere else. If the I1Ith cusp shows that the partner can 
produce and 5th cusp denotes that he cannot produce. then the 
wife will have natural children. If both the Sth cusp and the 
llth cusp promise progency then they will both h ve children. 
But the children born may or may not be due to the husband 
and the husband also can have children outside. other than 
what he can have through his wife. If both the 5th and 11th 
cusps are not favourable, they will both be sterile. 


The number, within 249, given by the husband is 175. 














House Planet signifying 
significators Houses 
I Jupiter, Raha. Sun 8, 9 
II Venus, Saturn, Rahu. Moon 4, 8, 
HII Venus, Saturn, Rahu. Mars 4, 5, I1, 12. 
IV Moon, Mars, Jupiter, Venus, | Mercury 7, 8, 9, 10, 
Saturn, Rahu, Jupiter 1, 4, 8, 9. 
V Mars, Venus, Rahu. Venus 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, II. 
VI Venus, Saturn, Rahu. 12. 
VIL Mercury. Saturn 2, 3, 4, 6, 
VI{f Sun, Moon. Mercury, Jupiter, | Rahu 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 9, 
Kethbu. 11, 12, 
IX Sun, Mercury, Jupiter, Rahu | Kethu 8, 9, 
Kethu. 
X Mercury. 


XI Mars, Venus, Rahu 
X{I Mars, Venus, Rahu 








194 


To check up whether the husband is sterile or wife or both 
are Sterile, both are productive, judge the 5th cusp for husband 


and 11th cusp for wife (because the number is given by the 
husband). 


The 5th cusp is 20° 36' Aries, i.e. Mars sign, Venus star 
and Jupiter sub. Jupiter is neither retrograde or deposited in 
the constellation of a retrograde planet. But it is not a 
significator of any of the houses 2 or 5 or 11 (see table of 
significators). Therefore of the three essential conditions for 
the ability to produce children, the third condition is _ not 
satisfied. This clearly means that the husband is sterile. 


Now take the 11th cusp. It is Tulam 20° 36' ie. in Venus 
sign Jupiter star and Jupiter sub. Jupiter is neither retrograde 
nor deposited in a constellation whose lord is retrograde. Also 
Jupiter is a strong significator of 8th house which is the 2nd 
house counted from the lagna of the wife. Therefore the third 
condition is satisfied here and the wife will be able to produce 
children. 


When she is productive and her husband is sterile, she will 
have natural children. 


The houses 2, 5 and 11 counted from the lagna of wife are 
5, 8 and 11. From the table of significators, the significators 
of these houses are Mars, Sun, Moon, Mercury, Jupiter, Kethu 
and Venus. 


Which of these significators will really give children and 
which are merely temptors is to be found out from the ruling 
planets. They are the lords of the day, rasi, star, lagna and 
lagna-star at the moment of judgment. The day is Sunday 
ruled by Sun. The sign and star transited by Moon are owned 
by Jupiter; and Mercury respectively. The lagna is 22° Dhanus, 
ie. Jupiter sign Venus star. As Kethu occupies Sun’s sign, take 
Kethu also. Therefore the ruling planets are Sun, Jupiter, 
Mercury Venus and Kethu. They are also the significators. 
Therefore they will give her child during their conjoined period 
and sub period. 


195 


According to dasa-bhukti at the time of judgment, 
Mercury Dasa balance was 1 year 1 month and 23 days from 


3-8-1969. The bhukti running is that of Saturn. Saturn is not 
a ruling planet. So Saturn Bhukti will not give. Kethu Dasa 
will start 26-9-1970. On 23-2-1971 Venus Bhukti will commence. 
On 26-9-1971 Jupiter Anthra will start. This will run upto 
22-11-1971. This period will give Her a child, if transit agrees. 


Sun transits Jupiter star Kethu sub in Venus sign Tulam on 
22-10 1971. Therefore transit also agrees and she will have a 
child on this date. (Let us wait and see how the prediction 
comes true.) 


Child-Birth ? 
(Number within 118) 


The following is the chart prepared for the moment at 
which I took a letter for study and judgment: 


Fortunately, the num- 
ber 28 within 108 given 
Mercury 
by the person shows that 
the lagna is Cancer- 
Kataka-between 0' and 
3° >0'. 


Friday 


The lagna, the aspects 23-4-1965 


to the lagna, the disposi- 
tion of the lord of the 
lagna and the various 
connections which it has, 
indicate whether one's 


desire will be fulfilled 
or not. 


Neptune 
25* 48' 


11-35 A.M. Mars 
15* 32' 
Uranus 
17* 42' 





The position of Moon called ‘Mathi’, the mind, shows 
the nature of the query. What he has in mind, as the urge 
to put a question is given by Moon. 


Lagna is Cancer-Kataka. It is governed by Moon. Lagna 
gains strength as it is directly aspected by Moon. (A sign gains 


196 


strength if it receives aspect from its lord or if it is occupied by 
him.) So Lagna is strong. 


Lagna is not occupied by malefics. Nor it is aspected by 
evil planets. 


Hence, what you want to have, you will surely have. 


Moon, the planet indicating the query is in the sign Capri- 
corn ruled by Saturn, in the star governed by Sun—Uthrashada, 
and in the sub of Jupiter. 


As per Stellar Astrology, Moon in Sun’s constellation 
indicates the matter signified by Sun who owns the second house. 
The second house denotes “Family and Finance.” 


Most of the people are worried about “Family and 
Finance”. So, Moon in Sun’s star does not specifically mention 
the nature of the query. 


Now study the sub and also ‘Sun’. As Moon was in 2° 45' 
it is in Sun’s star Uthrashada and in the sub of Jupiter. Jupiter 
is the chief governor for children and money. Again, to elimi- 
nate either and for clarification to select the exact nature of the 
query, furthermore one js to study. 


Take Sun, the lord of the constellation. It is in the cons- 


tellation of Ketbu who occupies the Sth house which governs the 
birth of a child. 


Consider Jupiter who is the lord of the sub. it is in the 
11th bhava, in the constellation of Sun. Jupiter is strong to 
indicate children. 11th house is the fifth from the seventh. 


Hence the query is about “chiid-birth.” 


First of all, one is to find out the evil influences and ascer- 
tain its magnitude. Then only, one is to consider the favoura- 
ble aspects promising an affirmative answer. 


Houses 6, 8 and 12 occupied by malefics, threaten loss, 
difficulty, delay or denial. 6th house is vacant; 8th house is 
occupied by Saturn which is in Jupiter’s constellation and thereby 
its evil results are mitigated by Jupiter. Hence it will be a delay- 
ing planet and not a denying one. 12th house is unoccupied. 


197 


Hence there will be much delay in becoming the father of a 
child. 


You have asked me to suggest as to what you should be. 


Answer: You have to perform “shanthi.” You have 
mentioned that you pray for Lord Ganesh. It is correct, because, 
the 5th house indicates the initiation of the Mantra, Upasana etc 
Kethu is in the 5th house. It is aspected by Mars, the lord of 5, 
Jupiter, the religious planet ruling the 9th house and the planet 
Saturn throwing obstacles. Mars and Kethu, having connection 


with the 5th house indicate that you are a devotee of Lord 
Ganesh. 


Whenever Jupiter aspects either the Ascendant or the Moon 
in a horoscope, the person will have faith and knowingly or 
unknowingly will be doing meritorious deeds ; he may also pray 
or do “Shanti”. In the Horary chart, Jupiter aspects Moon, 
who is also the lord of lagna and hence you will follow the 
advice to enjoy the beneficial results. 


The query is about child birth. Houses 2, 5 and 11 are to 
be considered. The strength of the planets which signify those 


matters of the houses 2, 5 and 11 is to be taken in the following 
order: 


(a) The planets in the constellation of the occupants of 
the bouses, 2,5 or 11; 

(b) the occupants of the houses 2, 5 and 11 ; 

(c) the planets in the constellation of the lords of these 
houses 2 or 5or 11; 

(d) the lords of these houses ; 

(e) those which are conjoined with these significators; or 

(f) those receiving aspects from the indicators. 


House 2 is occupied by Mars. Its stars are Mrigasirisha, 


Chitra and Dhanishta. No planet is found in any of the three 
asterisms. 


House 5 is occupied by Kethu. It rules over the constella- 
tion Aswini, Makham and Moolam. 


198 


Sun and Venus are in Aswini star. No planet occupies 
either Makham or Moolam. Hence Sun and Venus are strong 
significators. 


House 11 is occupied by Jupiter and Rahu; Jupiter’s stars 
are Punarvasu, Visakha and Poorvapathra. No planet is in 
Punarvasu, Neptune to which no dasa is allotted, is in Visakha. 
Reject it. Saturn is in Poorvapathra. 


Rahu governs the three stars Arudhra, Swathi and Satha- 
bhisha. No planet is in these constellations. 


Therefore Sun, Venus and lastly Saturn are the significators. 
To confirm whether they are the real significators, consider 
ruling planets. 


Today is Friday. Venus rules over Friday (23-4-1965). 


The constellation in which Moon transits is Uthrashada— 
its lord is Sun. 


Which is the sign in which Moon its passing at the time of 
answering the query? Capricorn Makaram. Who rules the 
sign, Capricorn? Saturn owns it. Hence this moment is ruled 
by Venus, the lord of the day, Sun. the ruler of the star Utbra- 
shada and Saturn the owner of Capricorn. 


Therefore, when will a child be born ? 


As Saturn is in the 8th house, it delays. Venus, the lord 
of 11, will give the child in its Bhukti-Apakara sub period. The 
dasa lord will be Sun. Sun Dasa, Venus Bhukti, Saturn Anthra 
will be the time of the birth of the child. 


How to find out; At the time of answering the Moon 
was in Uthrashada star, governed by Sun. It was in 2° 45’. 
Therefore balance of Sun Dasa was 3 years, 3 months and 3 
days. 


Sun Dasa, Venus Bhukti will commence on 26-7-1967. It 
runs for one year. The anthra of Saturn will be operating 
between 17-3-68 and 14-5-68. 


Therefore you can expect a child on a Karthika Nakshatra 
day between 17-3-68 and 14-5-68. 


Tb 


199 


Now, let us take the Western System, and find out how it 
coincides—Father, how that system also gives the same time. 


Moon, by progression, in 3 years forms sextile aspect with 
the lords of 2 and 11, i.e., Sun and Venus. 


Sun, by progression, as lord of 2, conjoins Venus-Suk>a, 
the lord of 11 in 3 years from now onwards. 


Hence, it is certain that you must have a child, mostly on 
a Karthika nakshatbra day in the end of April 1968 when Moon 
transits the position of Jupiter. 


You mentioned that you have the idol of Lord Ganesh, in 
silver. For your information, let the following details be given. 


“ If one Is afraid of one’s longevity, have an idol made of 
wood or clay and pray. It bestows long life. Also, people desi- 
ring to have much of prosperity can have it in sandalwood. For 
victory over enemies, idol in clay or sandlwood or Swetha Arka is 
the best. An idol made of coral gives success in competition, 
authority power and health. Generally, rich people do not main- 
tain good health. An idol made of gold possessed by them, will 
offer good health. Those who suffer from chronic disease may 
have the figure of the lord in the ring or pendant, for speedy 
recovery from the disease and to maintain good health in the 
future. If silver is used to make the idol, it gives name, fame, 
reputation etc. If the idol is made of copper, one will have chil- 


dren. If the idol is prepared in stone, will be lucky to have much 
of landed property. 


But one should handle the idol carefully and keep it safely. 
lf the image is hurt, itis an ill omen. If affects the head man of 
the family. If any hole forms on the idol, there will be disease, 
trouble etc However costly it may be to the temple authorities 
to be kept in the temple. 


Therefore, buy Lord Ganesh made of copper and pray him 


“Prayers” during night hours will never go in vain as there 
will be less of disturbance and you can concentrate. 


Lord Ganesh made of copper gives enthusiasm, and en- 
couragement. Genesh will bless you with a child. 


200 


People desirous of enjoying all the fruits of life, make the 
idol in an alloy of gold, silver, copper etc, “Panchaloka”. 


Whether you pray or not, the chart shows that exactly in 
3 years, you will have a child and thus become the father. 


Any Child at All 


The above question is put by a gentleman who had got 
married on 20th May, 1969 and he has no issue. He gives 
number 247 at 8-45 a.m. on Sunday, the 31st August, 1969 at 
Delhi. 


The horoscope for the number given and for this time of 
judgment is as follows : 


Moon Moon indicates the 
2-25 
Sat. 15.31 | 1125-38] IV 18-38 nature of the query. 
It is in a barren sign 
on Venus9.3 | In the constellation of the 
XII 14.38 V 13-38 | abortive node Kethu who 
is the significator of the 
houses 5 and 6. There- 
XI 13-38 : fore the question is about 
: the child birth. 
IX oo bea 44. Is it promised or not? 
ae 24.56 : As the question is from 
= the male note the 11th 


and then only the fifth. The eleventh cusp is in 13° 38° in Capricorn 
in Saturn sign Moon star and the sub of one in the 12th house. 
So the Uth cusp denies. The fifth cusp is in 14° 38' in the 
barren sign Leo in the sign of barren planet Sun star of the 
planet in the 12th house to the fifth and in the sub whose 
lord is in the 12th to the 5th house. This also does not promise. 
Generally houses 2, 5 andi 1 are judged to note the time when 
one can have a child. Here the second house is vacant. Its 
lord is Mars. It is in the constellation of the planet in the 
6th house occupying the strong barren sign. Mars, in 8 has 
no strength as it is also in sub of Rahu in 12. Lord of 2 is so 





20! 


spoiled that it is in 8, it is in the constellation of the planet in 
6, and it is in sub of one in 12. Then how can there be an 
increase in the family by the birth of a child. It is out of 
question. 


5th house is occupied by Sun. It is in the constellation 
of \ enus in the 4th house denying any child. 


Lord of 5 Moon is in Kethu constellation who ts in 6 and 
in the sub of the planet in 4 and is conjoined with retrograde 
plant Saturn, who is lord of 11 and 12. 


The 11 th house is unoccupied. Its lord is Saturn. It is 
retrograde in the twelfth house to two. Hence there is no 
doubt at all. He can fondle with other's children only. 


When Can | Deliver * 


The Table of houses and Ephemeris of Raphael give the 
various longitudes in Sayana. To convert them to Nirayana we 
subTact Ayanamsa. Therefore, only correct Anyanamsa 
must be used to give correct predictions. If Ayanamsa is 
not correct, the whole basis of the calculations will be incorrect 
There arc several Ayanamsa m vogue. Of them that which 
gives the correct timing of events is to be used. 


It is established by Prof. Krishnamurti after a lol of 
creditable research work and experiments that, only those 
Ayanamsas used and advocated by him give correct results. 
Others do not 


Another never failing finding of Prof. Krishnamurti is 
the ‘ Ruling Planets *. He has proved that the ruling planets at 
the time of ludgment and those at the lime of fructification of 
the event are same. The ruling planets arc the lords of the day. 
rasi, star and lagna at the moment of judgment. Invariably in 
all cases, without any single failure, using ruling planets one can 
decide correctly the nature of event and predict precisely the 
time and date of its fructification. The ruling planets point out 


202 


the correct answers to any query. The nature of query may be 
anything like time of birth, exact position of lagna, exact 
position of any other cusp, correct birth star, correct position 
of Fortuna, time of marriage, time of delivery, time of accident, 
time of death, etc , etc. The ruling planets will reveal the results, 
in fact, ruling planets help us to give precise predictions regar- 
ding any question even in the absence of birth chart. 


The query here is about delivery. Doctor has given her a 
date somewhere in the month of November 1969. She wants to 
know the exact date of delivery. 


At the time of query the lagna is Dhanus. It is ruled by 
Jupiter. 


The star is Dhanista. Its lord is Mars. 
The rasi is Makara owned by Saturn. 
The day is Wednesday governed by Mercury. 


Therefore the ruling planets are Jupiter, Mars, Saturn and 
Mercury. 


One should not make a haste and accept these ruling 
planets as they come. See whether any of them is deposited 
either in the constellation or sub of a retrograde planet. If there* 
is any, reject it. Mercury is deposited in the constellation of 
Mars who its retrograde. Reject Mercury and take Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn as the final ruling planets. 


Mars is by itself retrograde. But it is deposited in the 
constellation and sub of planets in direct motion. This shows 
that Mars is not barred off from giving the results. But it will 
not be able to give the results as long as it is retrograde. Once 
it becomes direct, it will give. The probable date given by the 
Doctor is in the month of November 1969. Mars is in direct 
motion then. Therefore Mars will give the results. 


Therefore finally the ruling planets are Jupiter, Mars and 
Saturn. 


When Sun transits a position in the Zodiac ruled by the 
ruling planets, the event will fructify. 


203 


Sun enters the sign Scorpio ruled by Mars on 16-11-1969. 
In Scorpio, there are stars of both Jupiter and Saturn. Which 
star to be choseu? When a doubt arises, always find out who is 
stronger. (In the ruling planets, the lord of the sign transited 
by Moon is stronger than the lord of the day, the lord of the 
star is stronger than the lord of the sign and the lord of lagna is 
stronger than the lord of the star). Jupiter, is the lord of the 
lagna in the ruling planets. Therefore Jupiter’s star is to be 
chosen. In this, Mars sub is transited by Sun on 18-11-1969 
The day is Tuesday ruled by Mars. 


Now check up whether transit of Moon agrees on this 
date. Moon transits Jupiter star in Saturn sign Kumba on this 
date. Therefore Moon’s transit also agrees and the delivery will 
certainly take place on 18th November, 1969. 


The number given by the lady when askad to give a number 
within 249, is 100. The (Latitude 18° 55' N) at 7.30 P.M. I.S.T. 
on 2-7-1969. 


The chart showing the twelve cusps for Bombay for the 
given number and the planetary position for the above time 
and date is as under: 


The lagna bhava is 


VIII 23-21 |Sat. 13-34 Sun 17-10 
occupied by Kethu and oa 


Jupiter. Kethu indicates 
some danger to the 


native. Jupiter indicates 
that there willbe some |*"7*°° 2—7—1969 
providential help. The Ce ee 


owner of lagna, posited No. 100 

in 10th indicates that penne er 
the lord of lagna is 
well deposited and that 


there is no danger to IV Ma re en) 
; ars - up. 5- 
the life of the lady. But 8-35 (R) 1123.21 





Mars aspecting lord of 
lagna by its 8th aspect is unfavourable, especially when Mars is 
a ruling planet. Kethu in lagna and Mars aspecting 11th indicate 


204 


that there will be caesarean operation. (Mars signifies use of 

F " surgical instruments and Kethu suggests some danger). However, 
Jupiter in lagna and. well deposited show that there is no danger 
to the life of the lady 


Will my Wife Deliver a Twin? 


If the sub-lord of the 11th cusp is deposited in the 
constellation of a planet which is either Mercury or which 
occupies any of the dual signs, Gemini, Sagittarius or Pisces 
then one's wife will deliver more than one at a time. Just like 
we see in the Horary Chart, it is also advisable to look to the 
number of the conception which she has, and then calculate, 
find out which house we have to judge. The cusp of that 
particular house should be ruled by h planet, which is deposited 
in the constellation of one who is either Mercury or who is 
deposited in one of the three duel signs. 


Am | Pregnant? 


Astrology gives a clearer picture than even in medical test 
in the early stages of the conception. Frog test may fail. But 
Astrology will not. If one is anxious to know whether one is 
pregnant or not, then the sub-lord of the 5th cusp should be 
deposited in the constellation of a planet which is the signifi- 
cator of 2 or 5 or 11 and also deposited in the fruitful sign. If 
the sub-lord and the lord of the constellation were to occupy 
barren signs, give her mental strength that she is not on the 
family way. This particular question will be put by many in 
the 21st century. Therefore, youngsters can be verifying this 
fact by asking a number from the girls within a few weeks 
after getting married. 


When is the Child Birth? 


Where medical science fails Krishnamurti Padhdhati 
succeeds, and it not only shows miracles but serves as an eye- 
opener to all those groping in the dark regaiding the wonderful 


205 


accuracy of advanced stellar astrology contained in Krishna- 
murti Padhdhati. 


It was the 9th September, 1969. | was attending an 
evening party along with many high Government officials and 
their families. One of the top officials (who is also my best 
friend) wanted me to predict the correct date and time when 
his wife would give birth to a child as she was in the family 
way. | immediately wanted to put the principles of Krishna- 
murti Padhdhati to test and asked him to give a number 
within 249. He said “245”. 


(a) The number “245” mentioned shows the lagna is 
Pisces sign, Revathi nakshathra I.e., between 22-13-20 and 23-20* 
This area is ruled by Guru as the sign lord, Budha as the star 
lord and Moon as the sub lord. 


(b) The Moon at the time of query was also passing 
over Cancer (Kataka) 28* 1°, which area is ruled by Moon as the 
star lord, Mercury as the lord of the nakshatra and Saturn as 
sub-lord. 


(c) The day was Tuesday, its lord being Mars which at 
that moment was in 20° 52' Vrischika, Mars sign, Mercury 
nakshatra and Saturn sub. 


Summing up (a -, (b; and (c), the positions of the planets 
functioning as significators; were : 


(a) Jupiter, Mercury and Moon. 
(b) Moon, Mercury and Saturn. 


(c) Mars, Mercury and Saturn 


The above significators immeditely gave me the clue 
that the strongest among them were Mercury, Moon and Saturn 
and the date of birth of the child would be on the day when 
Sun will pass over Virgo sign, Hasta nakshatra i.e. 15-40 to 
17-46-00=Mercury sign, Moon nakshatra and Saturn sub which 
will be only oil the night of Saturday the 4th October, 1969 
and before sun-rise on Sunday. 


206 


Accordingly, | asked the gentleman to reserve a cabin in 
the Nursing Home, from the 4th October, 1969, and shift his 
wife there on the afternoon of that date. He was not prepared 
to heed my advice on the ground that his family physician and 
the lady doctor treating his wife for the last eight months had 
emphatically told him the date of birth as 27-9-1969 and accor- 
dingly all his arrangements in the Nursing Home wore finalised. 
His family physician was also present at the party and, on 
hearing of my prediction he came to argue with me. He con- 
firmed again that the date calculated was 27-9-1969 on the basis 
of medical science and could not fail. | simply smiled and 
told the gentleman who put the query that if he could easily 
afford to bear the charges of the nursing home for one week 
unnecessarily, he could do so. | further informed him that after 
an hour when | would go back home, even the correct time of 
birth could be given to him by me, after a detailed calculation. 


He accompanied me to my place and, after detailed 
working, | told him that the date of birth would 4/5-10-1969 
(Saturday night) and the time would be 2-50 A.M. (1ST) He 
profusely thanked me for my labour. 


Under medical guidance, he shifted his wife to the Nursing 
Home on 25-9-1969 and kept her there till 29-9-1969 but without 
any avail. He then came to my place on 30-9-1969 to get my 
confirmation again, held to the same opinion. 


According to my advice, he again admitted his wife in the 
nursing home on 4-10-1969. The next morning at 6 A.M. he 
came, this time to congratulate me on my prediction—he was 
blessed with a son at 2.50 A.M. on Saturday night, i.e. on 
4/5-10-1969, precisely as was predicted 26 days in advance. 


Is it not miracle of Krishnamurti Padhadati ? How 
wonderfully the result came correct while the calculations of 
medical science utterly failed? 


Now, for the information of the students of Krishnumurti 
Fadhdhati | am giving below the details of my calculations on 
the basis of which the prediction was made. 


207 


Question: When is the birth of the child expected? 
Number: 245. 


Time of judgment: 
Ase. Sat R 
Tuesday, 9-9-1969. Lagna mts i III 23-30 | IV 17-30 
22-13-20 | I1 25-30 
Place of judgment : 


Calcutta. 
27-45 


The “245” number a eee Ven. 20-21 


represents the area in the 

: 0 49'9n VI 14-30 
zodiac between 22 (18 rs eer Sad 
and 23° 20' in Pisces Ketu 27-45 





(Meena , t.e., Jupiter 
sign, Mercury _ star, sew ras 22-13-20 
Revathi, and in that sub | X 17-30 29-44 | VIII 25-30 | Mercury 
IX 23-30 19-05 
on Moon (Chandra). -Jnp 16-31 
Planet Constellation lord Sub-lord 
occupied 
Sun Venus Saturn 
Moon Mercury Saturn 
Mars Mercury Saturn 
Mercury Moon Mercury 
Jupiter Moon Saturn 
Venus Mercury Venus 
Saturn Venus Mercury 
Rahu Jupiter Mercury 
Kethu Son Moon 


Note: The nodes, firstly, give the results of the planets 
with which they are conjoined and, secondly, the results of the 
lord of the sign occupied by them. Thus, Rahu represents 
Saturn: Kethu is a substitute for Sun 


For the birth of children, ‘houses 2, 5 and 11 are to be 
taken into account. The second stands for “Kutumba” or 
family, addition to the number of family members, etc. The 
fifth house rules progeny; the Uth house its opposite, also 
indicates as it is io 5 counted from the seventh house (wife or 
husband). 


208 


Common significator Mars, Moon, Venus, Mercury 
Saturn and Sun. 


Nirayana longi- 


tude of the house, Planecin — 
Cusp of nakshatra lord Owner of | Planet in stmilararou Signifi- 
house and sub lord the cusp. | the Bhava of Se ee cators. 
ruling the house : 
cusp. 
II 25* Mesha 30' Mars 
Venus-Mercury 
Vv 13° Kataka 20' Mercury Moon 
Saturn—Rahu Jupiter Venus 
Saturn Mercury 
Sun Saturn 
Sun 
XI 17* Makara 30' 
Moon-Rahu Saturn 





Ruling Planets: They planets who rule at the moment of 
Judgment are : 


(i) Lord of the day Mars 
(iit! Lord of the rasi occupied by the Moon Moon 
(ii) + Lord of the nakshatra where Moon Mercury 
transits 


(iv) Lord of the lagna at the time of judg- 
ment Venus 


(v) Lord of the constellation occupied by 
lagna Moon 


Therefore, the ruling planets are Mars, Moon, Mercury, 
Venus, Moon and Sun 


The significators of houses 2, Sand 11 were considered as 
Mars, Moon, Mercury, Venus and Saturn. 


(a) Mercury, Saturn and Rahu are In the sub of 
Mercury; 


(b) Mercury is in the nakshatra of Moon ; 
(c) Rahu represents Saturn ; and 


209 


(d) Sun, Moon and Mars are in the sub of Saturn. As 
such, the strongest significators are Mercury, Moon and Saturn. 
It was therefore calculated that the delivery will take place 
when the Sun transits over Mercury sign. Moon nakshatra 
(Hastha) which was possible on the 4th/5th October night. 
Regarding the correct time of birth, the position of the Moon 
on 4th/5th October, 1969 was considered, i.e., when it would 
pass over the Mcon sign Kataka, Saturn nakshatra Pushyam, 
Saturn sub and Mercury sub sub; i.e., 3° 41° Kataka, which 
will be only at 2-50 A.M. (1ST). The Ascendant at that time 
will be 10° 56° in Slmha, in Sun sign, Ketu nakshatra and 
Saturn sub. The horoscope of the child was also prepared in 
advance, based on the calculated data given to my friend on 
9—9—1969. 


It is now for the learned readers to judge the merits of 
“KRISHNAMURTI PADHDHATI” as_ it =Is_ absolutely 
beyond the scope of any traditional method of astrology to 
arrive at such a Surprisingly correct result. The proof of the 
pudding, verily, is in the easting. 


Long live our Guruji who, through research and deep 
knowledge, has enriched the sublime science of Astrology and 
converted Impossibilities to possibilities. His analytical approach 
inspires confidence in all his followers and his Padhdbatl has 
enabled them to arrive at precise degree of accuracy in regard to 
any event of life to the correct date, hour and minute. This is 
unheard of in the traditional method. Krishnamurti Padhdhati, 
truly, is a beacon to all those groping in the dark and yearning 
to see light. 


Am | to adopt ? 


The consultant has given a number 247 within 249 at 
Bombay at 6-30 P.M. I.S.T. on 26-3-1969. 


The twelve cusps for the above number for Bombay with 
the planetary position at the moment of judgment is as _ 
below 


210 


Balance of Rahu Dasa 2 years 10 months 1 day. 


Lagna | Ven. (R) Generally couples 
24-6-40 2-08 
Sun 12.22 | Sat. 2.20 | Hi 24-27 adopt somebody when 
Rahu 6-48 | II 27-26 they don’t have issue of 
their own. 
26—3—1969 The 5th cusp is very 
eee eee important to see whether 
No. 247 one is capable of produ- 
x115.17 | “¥amamia 25" 20" | 47-17 | cing a child or not. The 


11th house is the 5th 
house of the partner. 


Ketu 6-48 
IX 24-17 lo on 96 Ta (Ry | Therefore the 11th cusp 
Mars 18-03 7-14 shows whether the part- 


VIT6-40 | ner will be able to 
produce children or not. If both 5th and 11th cusps are unfavour- 
able, both the husband and the wife will not be fertile and if sucha 
couple wants to have a child, the only way out is to adopt 
somebody’s child. 





To judge the time of birth of child, one has to select the 
significators of houses 2, 5 and 11 predict the time during the 
conjoined period of the significators. 


One will be able to produce children if the following three 
conditions are simultaneously satisfied. 


1. The sub lord of 5th cusp is not retrograde. 


2. It is not posited in the constellation of a retro- 
grade planet, and 


3. It is a significator of either 2nd or Sth or 11th 
house. 


If any one of these three conditions is not satisfied one will 
not be able to produce a child at all. 


To assess the productivity of the life-partner, judge the 11th 
cusp sub lord and find out whether the above three conditions 
are simultaneously satisfied or not. If they are satisfied, the 
partner can produce children. If any one of the three condi- 
tions is not satisfied, productivity of the partner is not promised 


211 


Let us see whether the consultant (husband) can produce a 
child or not. Consider the 5th cusp. It is Karkata 15°17’, L.e. 
Moon sign Saturn star Jupiter sub. Jupiter is retrograde. 
Therefore the husband cannot produce. 


Now let us see whether his wife can produce a child. (If she 
can produce, then naturally, the child will not be due to the 
husband). For this we have to judge the 11th cusp. It is 15*17' 
Makara 1.e. Suturn sign Moon star and Jupiter sub. Jupiter 
being retrograde, she too, is incapable of producing children. 


Therefore both the husband and the wife are sterile and 
if at all they want to have a child the only way is to adopt 
somebody’s child. 


The consultant said that he wanted to adopt the first child 
of his friend. 


To find out whether a particular child will go in adoption 
or not, one has to judge the 4th cusp of the child. If the sub 
lord of the 4th cusp is deposited in a dual sign (or the sub lord 
itself is Mercury) and if this sub lord is a signlificator of the 
8th house (as it is the house of legacy) the child goes in 
adoption. 


8th house here plays a double role. One as the house of 
fegacy (the adopted child has a legal right oa the property of the 
adopted father), and another as the 12th house to fathsr (indi- 
cated by 9th house) showing separation from the father and 
going to the adopted father. 


The 4th shows mother and the sub lord of 4th cusp 
decides whether one goes in adoption or not. A doubt may 
arise in Somebody’s mind as to why the 4th cusp be seen and 
why njt the 9th. Th e answer is very simple. Maternity is sure 
and paternity is not. (The mother may have had pleasure with a 
person other than the husband and this child may be due to him.) 


The consultant has no child of his own. He wants to adopt 
the first child of his friend. Friend is shown by the 11th house. 
Therefore lagna of the child will be the 3rd house (5th to 11th 
counted from the consultant’s lagna, 


212 


The bouses 4 and 8 of the child will be 6 and 10 counted 
from the consultant’s lagna. Therefore we have to judge these 
two houses. 


The 6th cusp is 11°17’ Leo, i.e. Sun sign Venus star and 
Moon sub. The sub lord Moon is deposited in Mithuna. It is 
a dual sign. Therefore the consultant can adopt his friend’s 
first child if the sub lord Moon is also a significator of 10th 
house. 


Moon is a significator of 10th house. Therefore you will 
adopt your friend’s first child. 


For the time of the event take out the significators of the 
houses 6 and 10 from the above table. They are Sun, Moon, 
Mercury, Jupiter, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Kethu. 


Mercury is in the constellation of a retrograde planet and 
Venus and Saturn are in the sub of retrograde planets. Planets 
in the constellation or sub of a retrograde planet appear to give 
results but will ultimately fall through. Therefore exclude 
Mercury, Venus and Saturn. 


Further Sun is conjoined with Rahu and Jupiter is conjoined 
with Kethu. Therefore take Rahu in preference to Sun and 
Kethu in preference to Jupiter because node firstly give the 
results of the planet or planets with which it is conjoined, then 
the results of the planets in whose constellation it is deposited, 
then the results of the planets aspecting it and lastly the results 
of the owner of the sign in which the node is deposited. 


Therefore finally the significators are Moon, Rahu and 
Ketu. They will give the results during their conjoined period 


According to dasa-bhukti, Rahu Dasa Moon Bhukti Kethu 
Antra will run from 11-8-1970 to 12-9-1970. You will adopt in 
this period. 


The exact date of adoption will be decided by transit. Sun 
transits Moon sub in Kethu star Makha in the sign Leo owned 
by Sun (represented by Rahu in dasa-bhukti) on 22-8-1970. 
Therefore you will adopt on this date, 


213 


Can | gain in lottery? When? 


Balance of Mercury 
dasa 5 years 8 months Rahu 1-50 





12 days. 

What is lottery ? It is 
a gain without pains, 28-6-1969 
bringing casual income 7-42 P.M. LS.T. 

ee 18-55 N 

which is tax-free. Such No. 3 
an attempt will be made Ayanamsa 23* 20" | V1 55 <¢ 
during the period of a 
planet connected with 3reé Vill 4.58 a 
house, counted from Mars'(R) 50. 
lagna. (3rd house indi- Morn | ee | Jupiter 
cates lottery). 25-32 ao 


The query may be for the querist himself or for some 
relative or friend. If the query is for himself, make all 
calculations from the lagna. If it is for younger brother 
or sister, take the third house counted from lagna as the 
ascendant for that younger brother or sister. If it relates to 
mother, take the 4th house. To son or daughter take 5th. 
To wife or partner, take 7th. To father take 9th and to elder 
brother or sister take 11th and find out. 


To know whether one will win at all, judge the 11th cusp 
and find out whether the sub-lord of 11th cusp is either retro- 
grade or deposited in a constellation whose lord is retrograde. 
If either is retrograde one cannot win. If the sub lord and 
the lord of the constellation in which the sub lord is situated 
are in direct motion and if such a sub-lord of 11th cusp is also 
a significator of the houses 2 or 6,or 11, then one will win 


To note the sub-lord the number 3 is given within 249 and 
the horary chart for this number at Bombay is as given above. 
The planetary position is for the time of judgment. The 11th 
cusp is Makara 22° 58' 1.e., Saturn sign Moon star and Sun sub. 
Sun is never retrograde. It is posited in the constellation of Rahu. 
Nodes firstly, give results of the planet or planets with which 


214 


they are conjoined, secondly the lord of the star in which it is 
deposited, then the planet or planets aspecting them and then 
the lord of the sign in which they are deposited. In the present 
case Jupiter is aspecting Rahu and also Rahu is deposited in 
the sign Meena owned by Jupiter. Therefore Rahu represents 


Jupiter. 


Jupiter is not retrograde. Rahu’s motion is always 
retrograde. But such a retrograde motion of the nodes should 
not be confused with the retrograde motion of other planets. 
The reason is that planets, when retrograde, move in a direc- 
tion which is opposite to the usual. On the other hand the 
usual direction of motion of the Nodes never gets reversed. 


Therefore the sub lord of Uth cusp is neither retro- 
grade nor deposited in the constellation of a planet who is 
retrograde. Now, to know whether he will win or not, what 
remains to be seen is whether the sub lord of 11th cusp is also a 
Ssignificator of house 2 or 6 or 11. 


Sun is in the constellation of Rahu and sub of Mercury. 
Rahu represents Jupiter. Jupiter is in 6th and Mercury in 2nd 
bhava. Therefore you are sure to win. Further Sun is deposited 
in the 3rd bhava (lottery) Therefore gain through lottery is 
promised. 


11th house shows fulfilment of one’s desire. Whether the 
desire will be fulfilled or not is to be decided from the planet or 
planets in 11th bhava and its owner. Saturn delays. Fast moving 
planets fulfil the desire early. Others fulfil it in a medium 
time. 


In your case no planet is in Uth bhava. Saturn owns it. 
Therefore delay is indicated. 


The 2nd house is for improvement of bank position, 6th 
for loss of opponent and 11th for gains and fulfilment of desire. 
So consider the houses 2, 6 and 11. 


2nd house is occupied by Mercury. Kethu is in Mercury’s 
sign Kanya. Moon is in Mercury star and Saturn is in Kethu 
star. 


215 


6th house is occupied by Jupiter and Kethu. Rahu is in 
Jupiter sign Meena. Therefore planets in the constellations of 
Jupiter, Rahu and Kethu are strong significators of 6th house. 
Sun is in Rahu star, Saturn is in Kethu star and Rahu its in 
Jupiter star. 


11th house is unoccupied. Saturn owns it. Mars is in 
Saturn star. Mars is retrograde. This indicates that Mars 
will not give results till it is retrograde. After that it will give. 


Therefore the significators of the houses 2, 6 and 11 are 
sun, Moon, Mars, Mercury, Jupiter, Saturn, Rahu and Kethu. 


The 7th house shows opponent; houses 2, 6 and 11 of the 
opponent are 5, 8 and 12, counted from lagna. Therefore the 
significators of these houses will give gains without pains to the 
opponent. 5th house is vacant. 8th is occupied by Mars and 
Moon and 12th by Rahu. Further, Moon, Mars and Saturn 
are owners of houses 5, 8 and 12 respectively. No planets are 
In any of the stars of Moon and Mars. Sun is in Rahu s‘ar and 
Mars in Saturn star. Therefore Sun, Moon, Mars, Saturn and 
Rahu are the significators of houses 5, 8 and 12. 


If these significators are excluded from the significators of 
houses 2, 6 and 11, then the remaining significators will give 
beneficial results to the querist regarding gains without pains. 
Therefore these beneficial significators of houses 2, 6 and 11 are 
Mercury, Jupiter and Kethu. 


Now let us find out the ruling planets. The day is 
Saturday ruled by Saturn. Moon transits Mercury star in 
Vrischik sign owned by Mars. The lagna is Dhanus owned 
by Jupiter. Both nodes Rahu and Kethu represent Jupiter. 


Therefore the ruling planets are Saturn, Mars, Mercury, 
Jupiter, Rahu and Kethu. 


The common between the beneficial significators and the 
ruling planets are Mercury, Jupiter and Kethu. Therefore you 
will have gains without pains during their conjoined period. 


Mercury Dasa is already on. As its dasa balance is 5 years 
8 months and 12 days, Kethu bhukti is not to come. Jupiter 


216 


bhukti will run between 15-3-1970 and 21-6-1972. In this Kethu 
Antra will run between 9-3-1971 and 27-4-1971. Therefore this 
period will give. 


According to transit, when Sun or Mercury transits the 
19th degree of Meena, you must gel the lottery prize. (19* 
Meena is Revathi star, ruled by Mercury, sign is owned by 
Jupiter and sub is governed by Kethu.) Sun transits the 19th 
degree in Meena on 5-4-1971 and therefore on this date you will 
receive the lottery prize. 


Which relative will win 
Sir, 

“Who has got luck in our family ?” asks a querist and he 
mentions number 139 within 249 at 8-02 A M. on 31—12—1967. 


The Horary chart is as follows : 


V1I21-49 | Rahu 0-45 }y 777 48-49 | [x 18-49 Venus Dasa balance 
Sat. 12-46 | VII 20 
17 years IQ months 13 
days. Competition, 
caids, game, speculation, 
ge races, lottery are all 
speculative ones, bring- 


a ing casual income not 
12-25(R) | to be taxed even. Such 
X120-49 | an attempt will be made 


Ill 18-49 during the period of a 
Ms 111849" ads planet connected with 
Sun 15.25 | Ven: 4-30 : 5th house, counted from 
Mo. 14-45 the lagna. If the query is 


for younger sister or brother, take the 3rd house counted from 
Horary lagna as the Ascendant for that youngster. If the 
query relates to mother, take the fourth house. If it refers to 
children take the 5th as lagna to childten. To wife take 7th‘ 
to father take 9th and to elder brother or sister take the 11th 
and find out. 


Mars 
29-27 
IV 18-49 





2, 6 and 11th houses are to be judged. Any of the 
significator should have connection with 5th also. 


217 


2nd house is occupied by Moon, Sun and Mercury No 
planet is in the stars of these three These 3 planets, sub periods 
are to improve bank position. 


6th house is occupied by Rahu. None is in its star. 
During Rahu sub periods one can gain. 


11th house is unoccupied. Lord is Sun. It will do good 
in its period. The query is whether he can gain in the end of 
February 1968. At that time, Venus in lagna bhava, in the 
constellation of Saturn in 5th house and sub of Saturn operates. 
As the sub lord is advantageous to the opponent, you cannot 
win. The sub period lord is Venus: sub sub will be ruled by 
Saturn. 


As the opponent is shown by the 7th house and wife is also 
indicated by the 7th, one may ask why one should not buy on 
wife’s name. 


True. But one should know, how to differentiate between 
wife, partner’in business, second issue, father’s elder brother etc., 
as 7th house indicates all these relatives. 


The Horary Lagna is in Venus sign Jupiter star Jupiter sub. 
The querist is born in Libra and Rasi Aquarius, star Poorva- 
bhadra is governed by Jupiter. Hence the lagna indicates the 
person. 


The seventh cusp (navamsa) is at 70° of Aries. It is ruled 
by Mars (lord of lagna) Venus (lord of star), Rahu, lord of sub. 
This indicates that such a relative or partner in business or 
second child and so on, whose ruling planets are Mars, Venus 
and Rahu can gain, i.e. they should be the lord of the day, star, 
rasi and lagna. If the wife’s ruling planets agree, purchase on 
her name. If it agrees with that of your partner, ask him to 
buy. If the second son’s ruling planets agree, buy on his name. 
If none of these agree, none of you will gain. Some stranger 
will win. 


Similarly consider the planets signifying 3rd, 4th, 5th, 9th 
and 11th houses. If that relation’s ruling planets at the time of 
birth agrees, that relative can win. 


218 


This Is the only way to eliminate others and select that 
particular relation, even though the same house indicates many 
relations. 


To me, It appeals that the mother will gain. Why ? It is 
not because the ruling planets agree. 


But let us judge. 


Second house counted from 4th is occupied by Saturn: 
4th house is owned by Saturn: It Is in the constellation of 
Saturn and sub of Mars, lord of 11 to 4. 


Sixth house is unoccupied. It is owned by Mercury. No 
planet is in its star. Mercury is a benefic. 


11th house is occupied by Sun, Moon and Mercury. None 
in their stars. 


Venus is lord of S and 10 in 10th bhava in the star of 
planet in 2 and sub of Saturn in 2 and lord of 2. 


Hence Venus gives the mind to speculate. Saturn in the 
2nd to the 4th house indicating lagna of mother shows increase, 
n Income. If one wins, the cash can be had, a few days later. 
Hence, it will be the sub period of Venus. 


Therefore predict that mother will gain. Luckily 4th 
house does not indicate other relations. According to Wester- 
ners it indicates father. But | take 4th house denote mother 
and 9’h house for father, because lagna is the 5th from the 
9th and everybody will be proud of saying that he or she is the 
son or daughter of the f dher: 


Take your mother to races on the day when the star is 
Anuradha or Dhanishta. Let her buy a ticket. She must gain. 
So also for lottery etc. 


Overdraft Facility 


“Can | have overdraft facility sanctioned by my bankers” 
asks a gentleman. 


“For what ?” 


“For my business.” 


219 


“Give me a number within 249.” 
1038” 


108 means Mercury sign Sun star Saturn sub. i.e., 3* Virgo 
is to be taken as Ascendant. The other cusps will be for 
Calcutta, 22° 33° N as follows: 2nd cusp 2° 5'; 3rd 2° 5 ; 4th 
cusp 3° 5'; 5th cusp 4° 5'; 6th cusp 4° 5° and so on. Then 
insert planets for 1-30 P.M. on 6-7-69. 


Mercury Dasa passed Z VIII 2-5 X 3.5 


1 yr. 9 mths. 5 days; to Saturn , | Me. 3-26 
Sun 20-43 


pass 15 yrs. 2 mths. 25 
days. 


The houses to be jud- 
ged are 6, 2 and 10. Note 
the sub lord of the 6th 
cusp. It is not retro- 
grade. So overdraft will 
be sanctioned, i.e. by 
borrowing your bank 
position will improve. To 12. : Jupiter 
find out the time note the 5* 30! 
significators. 2nd house owned by Venus: Saturn Is in its 
star. 6th house occupied by Rahu. None in its star. 10th 
house owned and occupied by Mercury : Moon is in its star. 
Sun in 10 has Venus, Kethu, Jupiter in its star. 





Therefore from the time that is running now take Mercury 
Dasa Mercury Bhukti Jupiter Anthra Sun Shookshma. (These 
are the ruling planets for this afternoon). Exactly it will take 
2 months. Saturn, lord of 6 will delay: It can’t deny : nor it 
can disappoint as it is in the constellation of lord of 2. 


“For 2 months what am | to do ?” 


“Do not show your anxiety: Casually you ask him. Then 
after 21-8-69, you make sincere effort; shortly" thereafter you 
will get." 


“Before that can’t my attempts fetch anything ? 


220 


“Can't; it is like a boy throwing stone in a mango tree 
with buds. When the time is ripe, fruit is ripe : with or without 
any effort, one gets : So good luck is on 6—9—69.” 


Will | be able to borrow ? When and from whom ? 


The 6th house is the house which indicates debt or borrow- 
ing. To know whether one borrows money or not, judge the 


VIII 12-15 

Moon 

15-40 
Ven. 13-42 | Mer. 17-01 
Sun 27-34 


Sat. 14-20 
V1I17-15 


IV 17-15 IX 14-15 


13—7—1969 
5-30 P M. LS.T. 
18-55 N 
No. 156 


Aysnamsa 23* 20' 
III 14-15 


Kethu 1-02 


Lagna 
12-53-20 | XII 17-15 | Jup. 6-24 


If 12-15 


Mar. 8-33 XI 19-15 





6th cusp and find out 
whether the lord of the 
sub of the 6th cusp is 
either retrograde or depo- 
sited in the con stellation 
whose lord is retrograde. 
If either is retrograde, 
One cannot borrow. If 
the sub lord and the lord 
of the constellation in 
which the sub lord is 
situated, are in direct 
motion, then one will be 
able to borrow. If it is 


Sun the loan will be from Government. If it is Moon, very 
quickly the lender will agree to give. If it is Mars, there 

will be an atmosphere of tension in borrowing. If it is Mercury, 
one will correspond, send agent and will borrow in instalments. 
If it is Jupiter, with honour and by lawful means one borrows. 

If it is Venus in a friendly way the borrowing will take place. 

If the sub lord is Saturn, then there will be some delay and obs- 
tacles in borrowing. If Saturn aspects the sub lord of the 6th 
cusp, even if it is Jupiter or any other planet, one gets only a 
part of the amount or gets the amount part by part. 


In your case, the 6th cusp is 17° IS’ Aries, i.e. in Mars sign 
Venus star and Moon sub. Moon is never retrograde. It is 
posited in the constellation of Rahu. The motion of Nodes is 
always unidirectional. Unlike retrograde planet it does not get 
reversed in motion. A retrograde planet appears to change its 


221 


usual direction of motion and moves in an opposite direction. 
This retrograde nature of motion of the planets should not be 
confused with the unidirectional retrograded motion of Nodes. 
So moon’s deposition in the constellation of Rahu should not be 
interpreted as deposited in a constellation whose lord is retro* 
grade. The inner meaning of the term retrograde here is the 
reversal of usual direction of motion and Nodes never change 
their usual direction of motion. 


Therefore the sub lord of 6th cusp is neither retrograde 
nor placed in a constellation whose lord is retrograde and there- 
fore, you will be able to borrow. 


The 6th cusp is in Venus star and sub of Moon. Venus 
indicates that the borrowing will be in a very friendly manner. 
Moon denotes that the lender will quickly agree to give you the 
amount. But Saturn aspecting Moon foreshows that he will 
not give you full amount. But a little less. The sign lord Mars 
portends that you will be upset and angry in your mind because 
he agrees to give you little less than what is requested. 


Now to know the time of event consider the ruling planets. 
The day is Sunday owned by Sun. Moon is in Mercury sign 
and Rahu star. Kethu is in Mercury sign Kanya. The lagna is 
Dhanus owned by Jupiter. Kethu and Jupiter are conjoined in 
Kanya. So Kethu is very strong. Therefore the ruling planets 
are Sun, Mercury, Rahu, Jupiter and Kethu. 


As you are to get the amount very soon (because the sub 
lord is Moon), the dasa-bhukti method will not be useful here. 
Very soon means within a month or so. Tn all such cases 
wherein the result is anticipated within a month or so, consider 
the transit of Moon and predict. 


The strongest of the ruling planets is the lord of lagna. It 
is Jupiter here Kethu conjoined with Jupiter is stronger than 
Jupiter to give the result. Kethu is doubly strong because it also 
represents Mercuty, another ruling planet So Moj o must tran- 
sit in Kethu star. Kethu star Aswini is in Mar’s sign Mesha, 
Makha is in Sun’s sign Simha and Mula is in Jupier signt 


222 


Dhanus. Mars is not a ruling planet. Sun and Jupiter are ruling 
planets. So Moon will give the result while transiting Kethu 
star either in Sinha or Dhanus, whichever is earlier from today. 


On July 20, 1969, Moon is transiting Kethu star Magha in 
the sign Sinha and therefore on this date you will borrow. 


Always, he with whon one deals, whether he takes or gives, 
is to be judged from the 7th house. When you borrow, he 
loses. You receive a cheque means another has issued the 
cheque. If one is to give, it is found from the 12th house to his 
lagna. Younger brother is shown by 3rd house. The 12th to 
3rd is 2nd. Therefore borrowing from younger brother is indi- 
cated by the houses 2 and 6. If mother gives 3 and 6. If 
children gives 4 and 6. If wife gives 6 ; if partner in business 
gives, 6th; if one with whom we deal gives, then also 6th ; if 
father gives 8 and 6. If eider brother gives 10 and 6. If frienp 
gives 10 and 6. This is how one is to note from whom one 
borrows. 


In your case the sub lord of 6th cusp is Moon, who is 
deposited in 8th bhava. Therefore you will borrow from your 
father. 


Will | be able to clear off loans ? When ? 


Whether one invests 
XII 21-03 | Sat. 14-31 III 20-03 ; 
Mercury | Money or incurs expen- 
23-27 diture or repays loan, 
judge the 12th cusp and 
a2 | find out whether the lord 
16—7—1969 Moon of the sub of the 12th 
7-30 P.M. LS.T. 22-18 eae 
IS 55.N cusp is either retrograde 
No. 20 or deposited in a constel- 
Ayanamsa 25°20" | | 46.03 | lation whose lord is 
retrograde. If either is 
retrograde, one cannot 
Saeeeens ce ee either invest or repay 
Mars 8-51 VIo13. | loan. If the sub lord and 


the lord of the constella- 


XI 16-03 


IX 20-03 





223 


tion in which the sub lord is situated, is in direct otion, then 
one will invest or repay loan. If it is Saturn, then there will 
be delay and some obstacles to repay. If it is Mercury, one 
will correspond, send agent and repay in instalments. If it is 
Jupiter, by lawful means all the legitimate amount will be 
repayed. If Mars is the sub lord, the lender threatens and then 
the borrower repays. If Moon is the sub lord, very quickly 
money is repayed. If it is Venus, with a spirit of compromise 
and sweet words one repays. *If Sun is the sub lord, through 
the help of either father or Government Officials one repays. 
If Saturn aspects the sub lord, may it be any planet, one repays 
only a part of the whole or repays part by part. 


To note sub lord, the number given by the querist within 
249 is to be used. The number given here is 20 and the Horary 
chart prepared from this number according to K. P , with the 
planetary position at the moment of judgment, is as given 
above. 


Tn this horary chart the 12th cusp is 21° 3’ Pisces, i.e. in 
Jupiter sign Mercury star Venus sub. The lord Venus is in 
direct motion. It is deposited in the constellation of Moon who 
is never retrograde. This shows that you will definitely be able 
to repay your loan. 


As the sub lord of the 12th cusp is Venus, compromise and 
sweet words will govern the repayment. Saturn occupying the 
12tb bbava and aspecting Mercury, the constellation lord of the 
12th cusp, portends that you will not repay full amount. Buta 
little less. Further Mercury indicates that you will repay In 
instalments. 


To know the time of repayment find out the ruling planets 
at the moment of judgment, I.e. at 7-30 P.M 1.S.T. on 16-7-1969. 


The day is Wednesday—Mercury rules. Kethu occupies 
the sign Kanya owned by Mercury. Take Kethu. (Nodes 
represent the planet or planets with which they are conjoined, 
the planets which aspect them and the lord of the sign in which 
they are deposited). To-day Moon is in its own sign and 
Mercury star. Lagna is Makara owned by Saturn, 


224 


Therefore Mercury, Kethu, Moon and Saturn are the ruling 
planets. 


All the ruling planets are not always beneficial. When they 
are deposited cither in the constellation or sub of a retrograde 
planet, they will ultimately prove to be tempters. In the present 
case none of the ruling planets is placed in the constellation or 
sub of retrograde planet Therefore they arc all beneficial. Wc 
have already seen above that the repayment will be little less 
than the full amount and that too will be in instalments. These 
instalments will be paid in the conjoined periods of the ruling 
planets. Balance of Mercury Dasa is 9 years 9 months and 
29 days from 16-’-1969. In this, Moon Bhukt: has already 
commenced on 15-6-1969. This will run upto 15-11-1970. 
Therefore the various periods of repayment of the loan will be 
.»« follows 


(a) Mercury Dasa Moon Bliu*li Saturn Anthia fiorn 
22-1-1970 to 13-4-1970. 

(bl Mercury Dasa Moon Bhukti Mercury Anthra from 
13-4-1970 lo 25-6-1970. 


(c» Mercury Dasa Moon Bhukti Kethu Anthra from 
25-6-1970 to 25-7-1970. 


The actual dates of repayment of the satious instalments, 
based on the transit of Sun during the above periods, are as 
below 


(1) 22-I-I97O- Sun transits Moon star Mercury sub in 
the sign Makara. 

tri) 23-3-1970—Sun transits Saturn star Mercury sub in 
the sign Mccna. 

(lii) 22-4-19’0- Sun transits Kethu star Moon sub in the 
sign Mesha. 

(iv) 7-6-1970-—Sun transits Moon star Mcrcuty sub in the 
sign Rishaba. 

(v) 25-7-1970—Sun transits Saturn star Mercury sub ti 
the sign Karkata. 


Zen 


Recovery of money lost 


“Sir, | have come down to meet you and find out important 
matter.” ‘4 


“What is that?” 


“Yesterday, someone took away money from my almirah. 
| do not know who it could be. Here is my horoscope. Please 
find out.” “Let your chart be here. It is only to satisfy you 
that | should do all calculations on your boroscope which may 
not be correct if the birthtime has been wrongly noted. But if 
you want correct results, it is advisable to resort to Prasna or 
Horary system. So please give a number within 249. “132, 
please.” 


The map is as follows. Then work out the positions of 
the planets for this moment in Indian Standard time. Now it is 
8-30 A. M. on 14-8-1969. 





The ascendant Indicates 


- : VII 
the querist. Whatever the , 5535 | 10.96.40 | vi129-32 poe es 
sub-lord of the ascendan Sat. 15-34 


(the planet ruling the suk 
division of the constel- 
lation on the cusp of 
lagna) indicates, which- 
ever matter the sub lord 
of the Ascendant signifie 
that is what he would 
like to know. The sevent 


X 24-32 
Sun 27-51 


Moon 8-26 
Merc 18-18 
IV 24-32 XI 26-32 
Kethu 
29-21 


cusp shows the thief. The II 20-32 Age, Sapsii-26 
matter lost is shown by | 1215? | Mars | 1026-40 | XII 25-32 
the lord of the second 


cusp. ‘Recovery is shown by the 11th cusp and the time of 
recovery is shown by the significators of the 2nd and the 11th 
houses. 


The ascendant falls in Rahu star and Saturn sub. Saturn 
is the significator of the 8th, 7th, 4th and the 5th houses. The 
7th indicates the thief. The-' 8th bouse indicates possession of 


226 


movable currency or liquid cash by the thief: the fourth, indi- 
cates his profession; and the 5th house Is gain. 


Whether the article will be recovered or not, depends on 
the sub lord of the 11th cusp. As the 11th cusp falls in 26-32 
of Leo, the sub lord is Kethu. Kethu has to cause the results of 


the lord of the constellation according to the constellation lord’s 
occupation. Kethu is situated in the lith house in the constel- 


lation of Sun occupying 10 and owning the house 11. Therefore 
the sub lord promises recovery. 


When ? Find out the significators ’of the] 11 th house. Kethu 
and Jupiter are in 11. Rahu alone is in Jupiter's star. Moon is 
in Kethu star. Jupiter, lord of6 occupying 11, is very auspicious. 

Today it is Thursday, governed by Jupiter. Lord of the 
star is Kethu and lord of the sign is Sun. Hence when Moon 
passes by transit the portion which is together governed by 
Jupiter, Kethu and Sun the stolen money will be recovered. 
This can happen when Moon transits in Sun’s sub in Moola 
star ruled by Kethu, in Jupiter’s sign or Jupiter’s sign Sun star 
and Sun sub. It will be 3 degrees Sagittarius or 27 degrees 
Sagittarius. It will not be on a Friday or Saturday when Moon 
would be in Moola. But it will be only on a Uthrashada day. 
So, on Sunday, the 24th August 1969 in the afternoon when 
Sagittarius rises, the money will be recovered. 


Description of the thief: As Saturn is in the 7th house, the 
person is servant. Guide Bonatus says that if the thief’s signi- 
ficator be Mercury he is very young; if Venus, a youthful but 
yet young female. Mars shows him to be of full age, Jupiter 
of middle age and Saturn elderly people. If it is Sun, he is young 
if Sun is 12 or 11 or 10th house. If Moon is the significator, 
then the age of the thief will correspond to the age of the querist. 


According to me the sub lord of the th cusp shows whether 
the thief is young or old. Also the sub lord indicates the sex of 
the thief. Here the seventh cusp falls in 10-26-50 of Arles. 
The sub lord is Saturn and Saturn is also in 7. Saturn is a 
masculine effeminate. It is in a masculine sign, It is in the 


22) 


sub of a masculine planet Sun. Hence one can with confidence 
declare that he is an aged male servant. 


According to me, one is to find out the relationship bet- 
ween the querist and the thief. 


If the significator of the seventh house is also thesignifi- 
catcr of the first house, then the thief will be a we’l-known 
person who frequents the house and one who has alreadv created 
an impression for honesty. If the significator of the seventh 
house is also the significator of the second house, then one of 
the members of the family ought to have taken the substance. 

If the significator of the seventh is also the significator of the 
third house, then the neighbour or younger brother or messenger 
or orderly would have knocked it. If it is the significator of the 
4th also, it is one who resides in the same house or compound. 
If it is the significator of the fifth also the thief would be one 
among his own children or the musician who visits the house or 
the person with whom the querist has developed love or having, 
some pleasant pursuits. If the significator of the 7th is the 
significator of the 6th also, it must be the servant or one in bad 
health or an open enemy. If the significator of the seventh is 
also the significator of the 8th house, it is a stranger—not related 
to the person who has lost; or it may be one who Is temporarily 
appointed or one at times employed at the house, like gardener 
washerman, sweeper, etc. If it is also the significator of the 9th 
house the thief is a stranger belonging to another land, of a 
different caste and an absolute stranger. It may be a sanyasi ora 
religious person in disguise. If it is the significators of the 10th 
also, then the thief is one in respectable circumstances, or some 
businessman who knows where the things are kept and whom 
normally nobody will suspect. If the significator of the 7th is 
also the significator of the 11th, it is a friend or elder brother 

or one whose services were utilised and who was in the con- 
fidence of the querist before. If the significator of the 7th 
house is also the significator of the 12th house also then the 
thief will be a stranger, beggar, a poor fellow who ever borrows 
money, a person in miserable condition, and .one who always 


228 


reveals in stealing as a profession. Here the significators of the 
7th house is Mars; It is in the constellation Anuradha or 
Anusha ruled by Saturn in 7. No planet is in Mars stars. Mars 

is also the significator of the second house. Saturn is the slgnifi- 
cator of the 8th house, the 7th, the 4th and the 3th. Hence it 

is very clear that the thief is one whojs in the same building 
moving like a family member, at times taken as a servant, and 
moves in such a respectable way that no one can ever take him 
to be a thief. 


Where is the thief 


As Saturn indicates strongly the thief and also Mars and as 
the houses occupied by them are 1 and 7 and they are in the 
sub of the Sun and Mercury, who are in the 10th house, an 
angular house (Kendra), he is in the same place. But if the 
significator would have been in the sub of a planet occupying 
the house 3, he has gone to a place close by. If the sub lord 
occupies the 9th house he has gone a long way Off. If the 
sinnificator of the first house and that of the 7th house are in the 
same sub lord then at the time of query the fellow who accom- 
panied the person who has lost, is the fellow who had taken it 
and knocked it way. 


Such an indication | had when two people came to my 
house at Madras and asked me about 15 years ago. | took the 
person who complained to me that he had lost a buffalo inside 
my room saying “Please come inside and pray to God Ganesh; 
you will get it.” But when he alone came inside. | to’d him 
that the fellow who has taken you to me to consult, has gota 
hand in the theft. | asked him to keep quiet, be calm and 
patient. Then | came out and took the other man saying 
“why you have not come along with him. Come on, you also 
see the lord whom | got through the blessings of His Holiness 
Kanchi Kama Koti Peetadhipathi Jagadguru Shri Sankaracharya 
Swamigal” “Yes, Yes, | am coming,” he said. Then he came 
inside. | told him “Hullo 1 According to astrology and 
Nimithem | had, | feel you were responsible for the theft of the 
buffalo, Tell me the truth or | will predict in your presence that you 


129 


are mainly responsible for the loss of the buffalo. He said “Sir, 
the buffalo was grazing in my paddy field and asked my tenant 
to drive it a few miles off and put it in the Government Pound. 

| have not stolen.” Alright, let us go, | said. Then we came to 
the consulting chamber. | told him “You both go and search 
in the Government pound. You will have your buffalo.” 


The readers will be surprised to know that the animal was 
brought from the pound where the servant had left it and the 
friend who brought the querist to me for consultation was the 
one responsible. Thus the indications of the planets never, 
never fail. What is really lacking is the basis behind the 
prediction of the planetary portents—there should be only a 
single rule and not many, each contradicting the other. 
Astrology as a science has so far been relegated to the back- 
ground due to long time, neglect and discouragement to research. 
The only way astrology can be restored to its original glory is to 
discard all the decrepit, doubtful theories which confuse the 
consulted as much as the consulant and adopt correct methods 
evolved as a result of thorough and constant research. 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati paves the way. 


Entangled Money 


Will | recover ? Full or part ? If so, when ? Number given 
is 237 within 249 and 78 within 108, 


\ Whether one borrows 
money or gets back one’sRahu 8-53 
dues, judge the 6th Cusp 
and find out whether the 
lord of the sub of the 6th 







cusp is either retrograde peace 
or deposited in a cons- 18-55 N, 


tellation whose lord is 

retro-grade. If either is 

retro-grade, one cannot 
either borrow or recover 

that which had lent or ee 
given or deposited. If the 


230 


sub-lord and the lord of the constellation in which the sub lord is 
situated, is in direct motion, then one will recover the money. 

If it is Saturn, then there will be delay and some obstacles to 
recover. If it is Mercury, one will correspond, give notice, 
send agents and one will recover in instalments. It it is Jupiter 
and ill-deposited, one should go to the court and recover. 


If Jupiter Is the sub lord and is well deposited, one gets 
easily through court or by lawful means all the legitimate 
amount. If Saturn aspects Jupiter, one recovers only a part of 
It or part by part. If Mars is the sub lord, one threatens the 
other and recovers. Even Goondas may be of real use. If Moon 
is the sub lord, very quickly money is regained. If Venus is the 
sub lord, then by compromise and sweet words, one fulfils his 
desire. If Sun is the sub lord, through the help of Government 
Officials or by litigation one gains. Thus, one is to judge. 


To note the sub lord and offer such a prediction, you 
should ask for a number within 249. Then, from the number, 
find out the sign, the star and the sub—Note at which degree 
and minute it starts. Take the Table of Hous es by Raphael. Add 
Krishnamurti ayanamsa to the position of the sign star and sub 
found out for the number given within 249. Note the latitude 
of the place of judgment. One may correspond with you from 
North America or South America or Africa or Arabia or 
Australia. Do not bother about this place i.e., from where the 
querist wrote. But note from where you judge. Refer and 
find out only the latitude of the place of judgment. From the 
Table of Houses, find out the sidereal time for the ascendant— 
in Sayana—found out by you from the number given by the 
consultant and the ayanamsa added to it. 


Nothing down the sidereal time, refer and note down the 
cusps of Jhe other 5 houses. Add 180° to these 6 figures and 
complete the cusps. Now you have the map of the heavens 
in Sayana- Deduct Krishnamurti ayanamsa—you get the figure 
for Nirayana chart with 12 cusps. 


So, a number is asked to be given within 249. 


He gives 237. 


17 


231 


A chance is given to the astrologer to find out from number 
78 within 108 and 237 within 249 and enjoy as the same result - 
is obtained. This mysterious agreement can be found only in 
this Divine Science practised by intelligent astrologers making 
honest attempts with open mind. 


For 78, we get 16° 40’ Dhanus to 20° Dhanus. 


His query is not about health. In that case lord of Dhanus 
is retrograde and it is in the constellation of Moon in 2, being 
lord of 8. You have to predict considering these planets. 


But his query and the number given if for finding out 
whether the money given away can be had back. 


So take 6th house:. Why the 6th ? 


“When a candle burns nothing Is lost.” This is applicable 
for the universe. 


One individual can gain only when another gives or loses. 
| receive a cheque means another has issued the cheque—My 
bank position improves: to that extent the bank position of 
another must come down. Now, he who gives is judged from 
7th house—He with whom we deal, whether we take or give is 
judged from the 7th. If one is to give, it is found from the 12th 
house to the house indicating a native. 


If younger brother gives, second and sixth. If mother gives 
3 and 6. If children give 4 and 6. If wife gives 6 ; if partner 
in business gives, 6th ; If one with whom we deal gives then the 
6th, if father gives 8 and 6. If elder brother gives 10 aud 6, 
thus one should note. 


Here, they are different parties—So they are people with 
whom you deal. So take the 6th cusp. If 237 is given, then the 
sign is Pisces Saturn star Uthrapadrapada and Moon sub, i e. 11° 
Pisces to 12°6'40', So, take 11 Pisces. 


The date of judgment 15-2-69. Krishnamurti Ayanamsa Is 
23° 20’. So Sayana Lagna is 4°20' Aries. Place of judgment 
is Bombay—Latitude 18-55 Refer the page for 19°1 atitude in 
Raphael Table of Houses. Then 48 hours 13 mts. 34 secs-is 
the sidereal time. The other cusps are as follows ; 


232 


Second 9° 7'; third 8° 7'; 10th, 3° 7°; 11th 29° 7° ; 12th 
28° 7'; add 18° to each and complete. 


Then 4° Aries 2° Asc.; Second 9° Taurus 7' Third 8° 

Gemini 7'; Fourth 3° Cancer T Fifth 29* Cancer 07' Sixth 28° 

28' Leo 7 Seventh 4° Libra 20'; Eighth 9° Scorpio 7’; Ninth 8°, 

Sagittarius 7‘; Tenth 3° Capricorn 7*; Eleventh 29° Capricorn 

7*; Twelfth 28° Aquarius 7'; Now deduct ayanamsa and erect 
the figure. 


The 6th cusp is in | Sat. 28-03 
Kethu star Mars sub; reas 1115-47 |1114*47' | Iv 14* 47" 
Kethu is to give the resut Rahu 8-55 
Its of Jupiter, Sun and 
Mercury. Why? Nodes | yq1 4-47 


offer first the results of | Sun2-55 









15—2—1969 
the planet or planets wit 8-30 A M. 
. +7 = % Moon 18-5$ N. 
which itis conjoined.Sq 7". Ray 
it gives the results of | x15-47 VI 4* 47' 


Jupiter. Then the results ee 
of the lord of the consteF 


lation in which itisdepor | IX447 
sited ; so itis to give tha =~ 1-54 


results of sun ; then the 
lord of the sign in which it is deposited ; the sign is Virgo ; Is 
lord is Mercury. So it is to give the results of Mercury. 


Therefore 6th cusp in Kethu star and sub of Mars promise 
the following results, i.e. Jupiter in 7 law suit; Sun’s result is 
that you will get through Government. Mercury sign lord indi- 
cates in instalments; Sub lord Mars in direct motion denotes 
getting the money. Its constellation lord in 7 indicates denial 
and delay till Jupiter is in direct motion. Therefore, you will 
follow all those means and methods mentioned above. Saturn 
aspecting the constellation lord portends that you will not get 
100%. But a little less. 


When? 


The dasa balance is Moon Dasa 8 years 7 months 10 days 


233 


Judge the 11th house. It is occupied by Moon and Sun. 


Jupiter and Moon are in Moon star. Kethu and Mercury are in 
Sun’s star. 


Today Saturday—Saturn rules : Saturn and Rahu are in the 
same sign. Take Rahu. Today Moon is in Saturn sign ; Moon 
star Sravana-Lagna is in Meena in Uthrapadra star. Therefore 
Moon, Rahu, Jupiter, Saturn and Kethu are to be judged. 


The time of receipt and favourable judgment would be as 
follows ; 
(a) Moon Dasa Rahu- BhuktiSaturn Anthra Moon 
Shookshma. 


(b) Moon Dasa Rahu BhuktiKethu Anthra Moon 
Shookshma and So on. 


Date for (a) is 24-9-1969; (b) 30-12-1969. 


Thus you will recover your money back from this native 
whose number ts 237. 


Horoscopy :— 


Born on 6-9-1927 at 18° 57' N and 72° 54’ E at 5-42 P.M. 
I.S.T. 


Horoscope is as follows : — 


Venus Dasa balance 18 
years 10 months 24 days Jup. 7-51 ee 
From 30-7-1969, Rahu | l747 


Dasa starts. 





6th house is unoccupi 
ed. But is owned by 
Moon. No planet is in 


Moon’s star. ae VIL 0-13 


11th house is occupiet 


by Moon and owned by 

Jupiter. No planet occu- “47_| Me. 0-47 Mars 4-38 
; : sat. 9-96 | SEUAT | vin 7-47 

pies their stars, Moon " - 


134 


and Jupiter are strong. Kethu occupies Jupiter’s sign. Kethu 
alone is in Kethu star. 


Nodes offer the results of the planrts with which they are 
conjoined or aspected by Kethu will give the result of Moon and 
Mars. Rahu will give whatever Moon is to give. 


(If one refers to Uthra Kalamirtha, one will find that Rahu 
and Kethu cannot cause advantageous results even if they occupy 
Kona house, if they are conjoined with or aspected by planets 
owning the maraka house 2 or 7 ; but what will they do ? They 
will cause death. 


Similarly if Rahu or Kethu were to be in 2 or 7, the 
maraka house, they will not cause death, if they are conjoined 
with or aspected by the planets ruling Kona houses ; but what is 
the result? 1 hey confer wealth and all beneficial and agreeeble 
results. They do not cause death. Hence one can understand 
that Rahu and Ketu give away what they should do according 
the Bhava occupied, but they give what they are dictated by the 
planets which are conjoined with or aspected by a planet or 
planets.) 


Hence take Rahu as one who is to give the 6th house results 
as it is aspected by Moon. 


Then we have Rahu, Jupiter, Moon and Kethu. As Rahu 
Dasa is on and Rahu Is in Gecuini\ the recovery will be from 
more than one person and also on many occasions The time 
of recovery will be, Rahu Dasa Rahu Bhukti Rahu Anthra Guru 
Shookshma Rahu sub Rahu Dasa Rahu Bhukti Guru Anthra 
Guru Shookshma. The daks are September 1969 and end of 
December 1969. 


Theft and Recovery 


One who deprives you of your movables is a thief. Lagna 
indicates the querist, whose property has been stolen. Seventh 
house indicates the thief. If the stolen property belongs to the 
querist’s wife or querist’s husband, from lagna find out the 
thief; if it belongs to bis younger brother, the ninth house ; if it 


235 


belongs to the querist’s mother, the tenth house; if it belongs 
to his son, the 11th house; if it belongs to his maternal uncle, 
the 12th house, if it belongs to his father, the 3rd house will 
indicate the thief. Property lost will be judged by houses 
2nd, 6th and 11th houses counted from the houses indicating 
the thief. 


Whereabouts of thief 


If the tenth and seventh houses (indicating the thief) signifi- 
cators from gcod aspect, the thief is at his house If the seventh 
house (showing the thief) lord is connected with 6th and 9th, the 
thief has gone to a nearby place (because ninth house is thief to 
the 7th and houses 3 and 12 indicate short journey and stay ina 
neighbouring place ; but if the seventh lord is connected with 
3 and 6 house, he has gone to a far far away place. If the 
seventh lord happened to be in a movable sign, the thief is still 
going on farther and farther away; if it is in a fixed sign and 
happens to be in the tenth house, he is in his own house ; if the 
seventh lord is in the fifth house, which is a fixed sign, he will 
be in a friend’s house; if the lord of seventh is in the third house 
in a fixed sign he should be staying with a stranger, if Rahu is 
in the third house, he will be in a rented place; Jupiter in 3 
suggests temple, school, court, etc. Mars and Venus show hotel. 


Recovery of lost prope ty 


If the significators of the houses 2, 6 and 11 agree (counted 
from the house indicating the person whcse property is lost) 
with the ruling planets of the day, the property lost will be 
recovered. If the ruling planets are connected with 5, 8 and 12 
houses : it is lost once for all. 


Time of Recovery of lost property 


Work out the dasa, etc., for the moment and in the con- 
joined period of the significator of house 2, 6 and 11 ;again 
counted ‘rom the house indicating the person whose property 
is lost), the lost property wiil be regained. ‘To assure yourself, 
you work out backwards. The period that would have been 


236 


operating on the day of theft, will be the significators of the 
houses 5, 8 and 12. The dasa lord in most of the cases will be 
the same at the time of loss and also regaining. In such cases, 
dasa lord will be the significator of 5 and 2 or 5 and 6 or 8 
and 11 or 11 and 12. If the Dasa lord is not connected with 
2 or 6 or 11, in that Dasa period one cannot regain as it would 
be the significator of 5 or 8 or 12 alone. Similarly the lords 
of the sub period and sub sub period are to be judged. 


“Air India” Strike 


I. Mr. Raghavan, Publicity officer of A.I.R. an officer of 
Air India from Bombay and Mr. A.D. Mani, M. P. editor of 
Hitawata and 1 were discussing. Mr. A.D. Mani asked me 
“What do you think of the strike. The officer says that on 
Monday at noon a final decision will be taken. Will it be 
settled tomorrow”. 


| turned to the officer who is concerned with “Air India” 
and asked him to mention a number within 108. | did not ask 
Mr. A.D. Mani as he and | are not directly connected with 
Air India. 


The Officer, unhesitatingly mentioned “80” 


Generally | observed that whenever one talks, one used to 
mention “Two hundred times | told you, you do not hear me” 
When 1 enquire | find that he was drawing the same salary of 
Rs. 200 for nearly 10 years which is the maximum in the scale 
of pay Rs. 100-10-200; So he ever remembers 200. Another 
used to mention always 108, as he is very generous. This 
gentleman told 80, probably he may wish to live to an age of 80. 


As the zodiac is divided into 108 equal parts 27 stars 
multiplied by 4 quarters and the number mentioned is 80. We 
have to take the 80th division, i.e., the 4th quarter of the 20th 
star counted from the first star Aswini. It is Poorvashada 4th 
pada, i.e.. 23° 20° to 26° 40' in Sagittarius Nirayana Zodiac. 
The position of planets at the time of query and answer is as 
follows:— 


237 


Lagna Is in Jupiter’s 
= a - : M. 
sign, Sagittarius; inthe | 55‘, Rahu 4.28 | Jupiter 
star Poorvashada ruled | Sun 19-59 1-24 


by Venus : the sub may 


Kethu 


Moon is in the constel 
lation of Venus and 
Saturn sub. Venus rules 
the 6th and the 11th 


indicates dispute and 11 Nep 28-29 





mise as well as success. Moon denotes the query ; it is called 
“Mathi”’, the mind; what one has in his mind is judged from 
the position of Moon. Moon in the 8th Bhava indicates diffi- 
culty ; Sun’s sign occupied by Moon suggests the difference 
of opinion with the Government. Venus star—Poorvapalguni— 
occupied by Moon denotes transport department. Saturn sub 
confirms strike. 


If Venus owns not only the 6th house and also any other 
house except the 11th one, then there will be further difficulty 
and compromise is not in sight. 


As the 11th house promises honourable agreement accep- 
able by both the strikers and the Government, | unhesitatingly 
said that one can expect compromise. 


When? 


As Venus rules the 11th cusp, find whether Rahu or Kethu 
occupies either of the sign belonging to Venus. Because the 
node is stronger than the lord of sign, and the tenant is stronger 
than the owner, Rahu deposited in Taurus owned by Venus, 
represents Venus. Hence one is to judge the sensitive point to 
be transited by Moon (under the sway of Venus by being 
deposited in Venus star), and the Ascendant (in the constellation 
of Venus in Poorvashada). 


238 


Which is the sensitive point promising peace and settle- 
ment ? 


As Venus ts lord of 11, Rahu denotes 11th house results 
by acting as an agent of Rahu, Venus and Rahu are the signifi- 
cators. 


Lagna is to be judged for success or failure. Lagna is in 
Jupiter’s sign, Venus star, and in the sub of Saturn, Mercury or 
Kethu. 


Jupiter is in the sixth bhava, showing that the person who 
put the question will start working—when on Jupiter’s day, 
Thursday or on Jupiter’s star day Punarvasu or Visakam or 
Poorvapadra. 


Saturn sub or Mercury sub or Kethu sub is to be conside- 
red. Saturn, lord of 2 and 3 conjoins with retrograde Mercury 
shortly within 24 hours and Mercury becomes direct in a day. 
Hence Saturn will delay and within 24 hours nothing can be 
settled but a depressing and threatening news will be published 
to unnerve the servants. Mercury governs nervous system, 
mental strength and news in the paper after interview. 


Mercury sub shows, a lord of 10, that till Mercury is retro- 
grade 1.e., Monday 4-4- 1966, no compromise will be arrived at. 


Only after it takes direct course both the Government and the 
servants will come to an agreement on Mercury’s day Wednesday 
or in Mercury star day Ashlesha, or Jyeshta or Revathi. Lagna 
will be governed by Venus, Rahu and Mercury. 


Kethu is in Scorpio, but in 11th Bhava House. Kethu is 
also favourable. None of the sub is adverse. Therefore the 
astrologer has to use the science of Astrology—an intelligent 
anticipation by properly interpreting the message to the planets 
and select the time as well as the nature of event. 


(1) |took the Ephemeris and found out whether there is a 
moment in the future, when the ascendant will be governed by 
Mercury, Venus, Rahu and Jupiter. 


On Wednesday, ruled by Mercury, Moon transits in Venus 
sign, Moon enters Swathi star only at 4-52 P. M. Therefore on 


239 
Wednesday 6-4-66 after 4-52 P.M. it improves. Then Jupiter 
sub is to be transited by Moon. Moon passes In Rahu sub for 
a period of bPo2 hours 2¢ ints. = -;“q- x 1346 = 3 hrs. 22 


mts. Adding this to 4-52 P.M. I said that agreement will be 
arrived at only after 8-14 P.M. on Wednesday. It will not go 
beyond Jupiter’s sub. Moon will transit in Jupiter’s sub for 


X 22 hrs. 26 mts. = X 1346 = 3 hours. Therefore on 


Wednesday between 8-14 P.M. and 11-14 PM. It will be agreed. 
Venus sub sub will be at 9-44 P.M. when agreement is arrived at. 


Joining duty when ? 


Lagna 6th house and 10th house indicate one’s starting the 
work. 


Hence select the significators Jupiter, lord of Lagna, Rahu 
denoting Venus, Venus and Mercury, lord of 10. Therefore 
the significators are Jupiter, Venus, Rahu and Mercury. 


| selected Jupiter’s day—Thursday, Moon transiting in 
Venus sign Rahu star and Mercury sub for the announcement of 


the agreement, i.e , between Aours 26 mts. 
added to 4-52 P.M. when Swathi star started, i.e., 594 mts. 
after 4-52 P.M.; 2-46 A.M. on 7th to oe * 22 hours 26 mts. 


to 5-56 A.M. Hence the news was printed and published bet- 
ween 2-46 and 5-56 A.M. on the 7th. 


Joining duty is on Jupiter day Thursday, Swathi star day 
and Venus sub, 1.e., after 7-14 A.M on 7-4 -76 and before 10-58 
A.M. 


Thus, | predicted that the agreement will be arrived at on 
Wednesday (not during office hours) but only late in the night 
and the Air India will start functioning aronud 8-45 A M. on 
Thursday. 


240 


This article Ils to explain how to select the day, the time, 
etc., by using Krishnamurti Padhdhati and such detail as 


(1) The talk on Monday morning will fail 


(2) Wednesday in the night alone agreement will be 
arrived at. 


(3) Thursday, the servants will start functioning from 
the morning. 


could be spelled out by an intelligent application of Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati. 


[Here the subs are ruled by 3 planets. The astrologer is to 
make a selection and then proceed. But if a number is given 
within 249, nothing is left to the choice of the astrologer, except 
to follow one route only. That is why, asking for a number 
within 108 is forgotten and only within 249 is in use.] 


Can I buy him? 


The whole world is like the rose. There are sweet smel- 
ling and beautiful flowers and also thorns. Good and bad both 
exist. Similarly there are men who can be bought and there are 
also those whom we cannot buy. There are immoral fellows 
and rogues, large in number who never hesitate to sell their 
souls and the bodies for money and for such favourites of those 
persons. Are there not instances wherein due to bribery and 
corruption the election was held void. Those who sell them- 
selves do not consider that they become slaves. Also those who 
buy do not consider that such a practice is unfair. Only those 
who do not want to maintain dignity or self-respect accept and 
without any principle nor considering that he should be fair and 
just act in the manner in which the person who pays the bribe. 
This is not only in the election but in every quarters If that 
person’s co-operation is needed. 


If one is elected in that manner and he uses the political 
power for one’s interests, it is a curse. It is the greatest 
blessing to the community if the person elected or the person 
appointed carries out his job intelligently and impartially, but 
according to convention and the rules and regulations prevailing. 


241 


Goldsmith was a gentleman of character whom nobody 
could buy. He refused to-do dirty political work. He starved 
many days. He was arrested for having not paid the the rent for 
his house. Johnson understood his poverty, met him; as 
Goldsmith could not accept anything from others as a gift, etc. 
Johnson took the manuscript of Vicar of Wakefield, sold it and 
paid the rent and released him. There are such honest people. 


The experience has taught that such people whom you buy 
will never be your fast friend. If another person pays more, he 
will desert you. Also such people are'never grateful. A person 
drawing salary every month from an office for something he 
does and acts against the interest of the employer. When such 
is the case how can you expect that he would stick on, to be your 
permanent friend and ever help you. People with characte’ 
should never try to buy. Do not tempt others and spoil them. 
Beggars increase in number because there are people to do 
charity. Hence those whom you buy are spoiled by you. The 
person would be unscrupulous, having the only principle to do 
favour to one who offers illegal gratification. So such a person 
is to be the benefactor and your desire is to be fulfilled. 


Whomsoever you approach is judged from the 7th house. 
11th house indicates both the benefactor and the fulfilment of 
one’s desire. It also shows the success. 


If the lord of the sub of the 7th house is deposited in 
the constellation of the planet signifying the 11th house then, 
you can straightaway buy him. But if the significator of 5, 8 
and 12 happen to be the lord of the constellation in which 
the sub-lord of the 7th is situated then be will receive the 
money and cannot or will not oblige you. Have we not 
heard of people taking money from one party and voting for 
the opponent. Therefore judge the 7th cusp. 


When Is the Marriage? 


“Sir, your students say that prediction based on the horos- 
cope of a person may or may not be correct. All the position 
of the 12 cusps depend on the moment of the birth time taken, 


242 


And you decide whether there is fulfilment of one’s desire or not 
only from the sub lord of the cusps to be taken for judgment. 
Hence, it seems you prefer Horary to Natal chart.” 


“Yes, undoubtedly. | reiterate that Horary is the best to 
get correct and amazing results.” 


For Horary am | to give a number ? 
“Yes, please mention any number between | and 249. 


Let me give 74.” 


Suppose I give number 74 within I and 249 and the query 
is judged at Delhi a) 7-30 A.M. I.S.T. 


By 74 It is meant that Moon sign Cancer, Saturn star 
Pushya and 14° 53° 20* ruled by Jupiter is the lagna. 


Then we have to find out the cusps of the other houses.” 


“Will not the cusps vary from one place to the other ?” 


“All places in the same latitude will have the same cusps 
even though their longitude may be different. Therefore one Is 
to note the latitude of the place of judgment and not the place 
from which the query is put.” 


“So, we have to take the latitude of Delhi.” 


Yes. It is for Delhi we have to see. The latitude is 28-38 
North. 


Which Table of Houses do you recommend to refer ? 


Till the Table of HOUSES prepared by me comes out, one 
should refer only the Raphael’s Table of Houses and not any- 
thing else ; we should avoid calculations. Even he who claims 
t hat he is good in Higher Mathematics failed in Elementary 
Mathematics which | pointed out in my October 1967 issue. 
One may.be M.A. yet he can err. Therefore as far as possible 
avoid calculations when ready reference table is there. So refer 
to Raphael’s Table and when mine is released refer to mine.” 


Sir, the Table of Houses is in Sayana position. Is it not ?” 


“Yes. So you have to note the ayanamsa on the day of 
judgment. 


243 


Which Ayanamsa am | to follow? 


Follow Krishnamurti Ayanamsa. Forget all others. When 
Krishnamurti Ayanamsa is used and by using the subdiviion of 
a constellation you come correct in minute details, it goes with- 
out saying that the other ayanamsa are not to be followed, 
especially if it varies by degree ? Follow only mine. 


What is the Ayanamsa now ? 


23 degrees 20 minutes. So you add this figure to the posi- 
tion you got for the number you gave, i.e. 74 . Hence add 23-20 
to 14-53-20. Then the Sayana position of the lagna would be 8 
degrees 13 mts. 20 scs. Turn over the page where the cusps of 
various houses are given for Delhi Latitude. Then you will get 
that Virgo 9-32 is the second cusp Libra 8 32 is the third cusp ; 
fourth will be 10-32 Scorpio; fifth will be 13-32 Sagittarius; 
sixth will be 15-32 Capricorn and the other 6 cusps are 180 
degrees opposite to these. 


Now we have got the Sayana position of the 12 cusps. 
Deduct the Ayanamsa and convert them to Nirayana. The 
following figure is the map for the query and hereafter we have 
to note down the position of the planets- 


For which time are we to note the position of the planets ? 
If you judge a chart immediately after calculations, then you 
have to note the position of the planets at which you start the 
casting of the horoscope for judgment. Cusps for the number 
can be done and kept ready as a ready reckoner. You may keep 
a ready reckoner for any single locality for every number bet- 
ween 1 and 249. Noting the position of the planets and in 
continuation to judge will be done at any time. That time 
alone should be taken for the position of the planets. 


Then are we to note for 7-30 A M. I.S.T. or are we to con- 
vert the time to L.M.T. 


“Hullo ! it is only to find the cusps of the houses one is 
to find out the time in L.M.T. But to calculate the position of 
the planets you hive to take the Indian Standard time. Because 
the position of the planets are for 12 noon Greenwich, That is 


244 


the same position for 5-30 P.M. I.S.T. That is why I have 
given in my Ephemeris the position of the planets for 5-30 P.M. 
| could have given the position of the planets for 12 noon 
I.S.T. But you cannot verify easily with that of Western 
Ephemeris and confirm that mine is correct. So one can work 
with confidence. Doubt should never be there. Therefore you 
calculate and insert in the map after deducting ayanamsa from 
the figures obtained. Then the following is the horoscope for 


Judgment:— 


1x 15-12 | 5815-34 | yxy 20-12 


Rahu 
29-24 
VIII 16-12 


14-53-20 
Moon 
25-19 
Sun 27-00 
II 16-12 
vu a 
14-53-20 


Kethu 
IV 22-12 


13-8-1969 


29-24 


Jup. 11-15 
TV 17-12) nT 15-12 





Mercury Dasa at the 
moment of judgment 
balanced5years, 11 months 
20 days. We have to 
presume that Mercury 
Dasa Rahu Bhukti star- 
ted on 30-1-68. 


First Question: Is mar- 
riage promised ? 


Note where the seventh 
cusp falls, it is‘in Capri- 
corn at 14-53-20. It is 


Moon star Jupiter sub. What does Jupiter signify? Jupiter is 
occupying the second house promising increase in the number 6f 
the members of the family by marriage. Hence marriage is 


promised. 


Second Question:—Who are the significators of the houses 
2, 7,11 which houses denote the wedding ? 


Occupant of the constellation of a planet is stronger than 
the ocbupant. Occupant of a house is stronger than the lord of 
the house. This is the main principle of Krishnamurtiji. 


Therefore find out the occupant, of these houses and the 
planets, if any deposited in the constellation of the occupant* 
Then note down the occupant. Later find out the planets 
situated in the constellation of the owners of the signs in which 


245 


the cusps of the houses 2, 7 and 11 fall. Finally take the lords 
of the houses as well as those planets conjoined with or aspected 
by the above significators. 


Second house extends from 1612 Leo to 15-12 Virgo (you 
have to take cusp to cusp as a house and not like the traditional 
astrologers, if you want to follow Krishnamurti Padhdhati.) 
Mercury, Kethu and Jupiter are the occupants of the 2nd house 
No planet is in Kethu constellation. Rahu is in Jupiter’s star; 
Moon, Sun are in the star of Mercury. 


Seventh house extends from 14-53-20 in Capricorn to 16-12 
in Aquarius. No planet is found in this arc. 


Eleventh house extends from Taurus to 22-12 Gemini. 
Venus is in this area and the three constellations of Venus are 
Bharani, P.P. Guni and Poorvashada. Saturn and Mercury 
are the two planets in its star. Therefore the strongest are 
Mercury, Rahu, Jupiter. Kethu, Saturn, Venus, Moon and Sun. 


Now the question arises how to select the strongest and the 
fruitful ones. 


Krishnamurtiji has discovered that the ruling planets at the 
moment of judgment will be helpful and they are the real bene- 
factors. Today it is Wednesday governed by Mercury. The star 
is Ashlesha ruled by Mercury. The sign is governed by Moon, 
Cancer. Lagna falls in Leo, Kethu and Rahu are the two nodes 
which will represent Mercury as Kethu is conjoined with 
Mercury and Rahu is aspected by Mercury. Krishnamurtiji has 
said that Rahu or Kethu will give first of all the results indicated 
by the planets with which they are conjoined or by which they 
are aspected. 


Hence include the two nodes, Reject Sun, take Kethu. 
Then when will the marriage come up ? 


Mercury Dasa Rahu Bhukti Kethu Anthra or Mercury Dasa 
Rahu Bhukti Moon Anthra. Mercury Dasa Rahu Bhukti 
Kethu Anthra is mostly over. Moon Anthra will start after 7 
months 24 days, i.e. on 7th April, 1970. It will run for 2 months 
and 16£ days. Now we have to see in which constellation and 


246 


sub the significators will be transiting. As Mercury and Moon 
are fast moving. Take Rahu. Rahu comes to its own constel- 
lation on 7ih February, 1970. 7hen it will be in Venus sub till 
25th April, 1970. Then it will be in Kethu sub which is also a 
strong significator. Mercury will enter into Rohini star gover- 
ned by Moon in Venus sign. Hence the date of marriage will 

be on the day when Sun transits in Venus sign, Moon star, Rabu 
sub, i.e., 25th May, 1970. 


Re-union With Husband 
On 9-6-1966 at 12-05 A.M. A lady puts us a query: 


Will | Join my husband and have domestic facility ? 


The following are the planetary positions: 


Sun. 24-34 | Mercury The longitude of Moon 
Saturn | Venus | Rahul-56) 9-28 is 3%27‘ in sign Aquarius. 
é 16* 28" M Jupit Ores 
ae 14.38 15-48 | She is posited in the cons- 


Moon 
3727 





tellation of Dhanishta, 
ruled by Mars and is in 
the sub of Venus. Conse- 
quently the sub period of 
Venus in themajor period 
naa of Mars is in operation at 
the time of query. 

ae 7th house indicates 

1-56 husband, marital happi- 

ness and with legal hus- 


band. 2nd house indicates family and domestic facility. 11th 
house indicates reunion, the cordial relations and permanent tie 
with married partner. 


Therefore for reunion with husband and prefect domestic 
facility, consider houses 2, 7 and 11. 


The significators are: 


(1) Planets posited in the constellation of the occupant 
of houses 2, 7 and 11. 


18 


247 


(2) Occupants of houses 2, 7 and 11. 


(3) Planets posited in the constellation of the lords of 
houses 2, 7 and 11. 


(4) Lords of houses 2, 7 and 11. 


(5) Planets who are in conjunction with or aspected 
by the significators. 


(a) 2nd house is vacant. 


7th house is occupied by Saturn. Pushyatn, Anuradha and 
Uttarabhadra are ruled by Saturn. Saturn himself is posited in 
Uttarabhadra. So Saturn is-a significator. 


(b) 2nd house is occupied by no planet. 7th house is 
occupied by Saturn. 11th house is vacant. So Saturn Is a 
significator. 


(c) 2nd lord is Mercury. 11th lord is also Mercury. 
Mercury rules the constellations, Aslesha, Jyeshta and Revathi. 
No planet Is posited in any one of these constellations. 7th lord 
is Saturn. Saturn himself is posited in his own constellation. 
So Saturn is a significator. 


(d) Lord of 2 and 11 is Mercury. Lord of 7th house is 
Saturn. Therefore Mercury and Saturn are significators. 


(e) Saturn aspects Rahu powerfully. Mercury is in 
conjunction with Jupiter. 


Therefore the significators indicating reunion with husband 
and domestic facility are Saturn, Mercury, Jupiter and Rahu. 


The planetary period of Mars is in operation at the time of 
query. It is to run upto 17-2-1968. Mars is not a significator 
indicating reunion and domestic facility. He is posited in the 
constellation Rohini, ruled by Moon and is in the sub of Jupiter. 
Moon'rules the 12th house indicating separation of husband 
and Jupiter rules the house indicating sorrow due to husband. 
Therefore Mars will not contribute to the growth of cordial 
relations with the husband. As Jupiter is also lord of 5th house, 
relation with the husband will not be snapped. There is also 
no danger to the life of your husband as Jupiter holds the 


248 


lordship of your “Manghlyasthana” (8th house) and the 7th 
lord, Saturn is posited in his own constellation, Uttarabhadra. 


From 17-2-1968 onwards the planetary period of Rahu 
commences. 


Whether Rahu contributes reunion and domestic facility ? 


A planet offers the results of the lord of the constellation 
in which it is posited. The affairs pertaining to the houses 
over which the lord of constellation holds lordship will be 
experienced by the native predominently. The sub will indicate 
the net result. 


Rahu is posited in the constellation Krithika. Krithika“is 
ruled by Sun. And Sun holds the lordship of 1st house. 1st 
house indicates honour, dignity, glory, comfort and happiness. 


Rahu is posited in the sub of Jupiter. Jupiter holds lord- 
ship of 5th house and 8th house. 5th house indicates recreation 
and pleasure. 5th house is 11th (permanent tie) to 7th house 
(husband). 8th house is your (‘Mangalyam’). It is 2nd house 
(comfort from family) to the 7th house (busband). 


Therefore Rahu who is posited in the constellation of lord 
of 1st house and who is in the sub of lord of 5 and 8, is a 
strong significator indicating reunion and domestic facility. You 
are sure to meet and move with your married partner and will 
have marital bliss ane domestic comfort during the planetary 
period of Rahu. 


“Sir, the planetary period of Rahu runs for 18 years. If so, 
when my husband will meet me and | will have the pleasure of 
moving with him”, asked the lady quite interestedly. 


Madam! 


What you told is correct. Rahu rules 18 years. Naturally 
you are interested to know which year, which month and which 
day you will meet your husband and move with him with 
comfort and joy. 


Our ancient sages have divided the planetary periods into 
sub periods and each sub periods rules certain period which 


249 


runs a few years. Again each sub period is divided into sub 
sub periods which runs a few months. 


Planets posited favourably with the major lord will always 
help, assist and co-operate with the major lord in giving the 
expected result. Planets inharmoniously disposed with the 
major lord will bring obstacles and cause delay. 


Whether a planet is favourably placed or not, is to be 
ascertained from the longitudinal distance between planets. 
Saturn is very favourably placed towards Rahu. Mercury is 
also favourably placed towards Rahu. 


The first sub period in the Rahu major period is Rahu sub 
period itself which runs 2 years 8 months and 12 days. The 
sub period of Rahu is again divided into sub sub (Anthara) 
periods. The first sub sub (Anthra) period in the sub period 
of Rahu belongs to Rahu himself which runs for 4 months, 
25 days and 48 Ghatis from 17-2-1968. 


Rahu is a strong significator. Therefore it is during this 
period, i.e., between 17-2-1968 and 13-7-1968 you will meet your 
husband. 


On what date ? 


The ruling planets at the time of query are the ruling 
planets at the time of fructification of the expected result. The 
week day the query is put, is Thursday. Thursday is ruled by 
Jupiter. The query is put, when Leo is rising in the east. Leo 
is ruled by Sun. The Moon is in the constellation Avittam, in 
sign Aquarius at the time of query. Avittam is ruled by Mars 
Aquarius is ruled by Saturn. Therefore the ruling planets at 
the time of query are Jupiter, Sun, Mars and Saturn. The same 
planets will rule at the time of return of your husband. The 
planetary period that will be ruling then will also belong to 
these planets only. 


The planetary period of Rahu is in operation. Rahu is a 
shadowy planet. It reflects the results of the planets with whom 
it is in association and also in aspect of Rahu is in association 
with Sun and Mars is aspected by Saturn. Therefore Rahu is 


250 


to act as agent of Sun, Mars and Saturn. Thus the lord of the 

planetary period has reflected the ruling planets of the query. 
Sun, Mars and Saturn leaving aside Jupiter. Therefore the 

major period of Rahu, the sub period of Rahu, the sub sub 

period of Rahu and the sookshma period of Jupiter will offer 

the expected result, reunion and domestic facility. It runs 

between 9-3-1968 and 29-3-1968. The luminaries are the 

exciting planets. Sun transits Poorvabhadra in sign Pisces 

between 15th Marchand 17th March every year approximately. 
The week day will be Thursday. 


Therefore your husband will meet you on Thursday, 15th 


March, 1968 from which date onwards he will move with you 
permanently bestowing on you marital happiness and domestic 
facility. 


[It is her luck and destiny. They are now living together 
since 2 years.] 


Will My Husband join Me? 
Number given is 1. 


The query is taken for judgment at 3 P.M. on Monday, 4th 
August, 1969 at 28-38 North. 


The horoscope is as follows :— 


Kethu Dasa Balance 

ea one year and five months. 
Husband to return home 

and to join the wife one 

is to judge the houses 11, 

Sun 18-30 | 7 and 6. For separation 

12, 7 and 6. 


In horary astrology one 
should first of all note 
whether he will come at 


IX 29-04 
Mars Jupiter all and then only take 


13-04 9-43 trouble to find out the 


VIII 3-04 





significators and cal- 


251 


culate when the significators will operate conjointly so that 
he can come and join on that day. 


The 11th cusp Is at 17-4 in Capricorn. It is Moon’s star and 
the sub of Venus. As Venus is in the constellation of Rahu depo- 
sited in the 12th Bhava it is unfavourable for united life. But 
Venus is also the significator of the houses 2, 3 and 7. As a Signi- 
ficator of 7 aspected bv lord of lagna it shows that there will be 
reunion. It means that Venus is for separation and also for 
reunion. Does it look funny ? When one is running Venus 
Dasa for some time wife goes away and then returns. Unless 
Venus has got such matters shown according to its disposition, 
bbth cannot happen. 

Now we have to find out when he will return. 

Consider the houses 11,7 and 6. 

11th house is owned by Saturn. Rahu is in its sign. 

Rahu is stronger. Venus is deposited in Rahu's star. 

Mars is deposited in Saturn’s star. 

VII house is unoccupied. It is owned by Venus. 


Saturn alone is in Venus constellation. 


Sixth house is occupied by Kethu and Jupiter. Moon and 
Mercury are in Kethu star. 


Therefore the strong significators are Venus, Saturn, 
Mercury, Moon and Kethu. 


The time of reunion should be during Kethu Dasa Mercury 
Bhukti Moon Anthra Venus Shookshma. It will be in July 


1970. 
Business nnd Partnership 
Partnership : Will it continue or break ? If so, when ? 
Number given is 156. 
Judgment time—/7-30 A.M. 
Judgment Date—19-2-69. 
Judgment Latitude of the place 19*N. 


251 


culate when the significators will operate conjointly so that 
he can come and join on that day. 


The 11th cusp Is at 17-4 in Capricorn. It is Moon’s star and 
the sub of Venus. As Venus is in the constellation of Rahu depo- 
sited in the 12th Bhava it is unfavourable for united life. But 
Venus is also the significator of the houses 2, 3 and 7. As a Signi- 
ficator of 7 aspected bv lord of lagna it shows that there will be 
reunion. It means that Venus is for separation and also for 
reunion. Does it look funny ? When one is running Venus 
Dasa for some time wife goes away and then returns. Unless 
Venus has got such matters shown according to its disposition, 
bbth cannot happen. 

Now we have to find out when he will return. 

Consider the houses 11,7 and 6. 

11th house is owned by Saturn. Rahu is in its sign. 

Rahu is stronger. Venus is deposited in Rahu's star. 

Mars is deposited in Saturn’s star. 

VII house is unoccupied. It is owned by Venus. 


Saturn alone is in Venus constellation. 


Sixth house is occupied by Kethu and Jupiter. Moon and 
Mercury are in Kethu star. 


Therefore the strong significators are Venus, Saturn, 
Mercury, Moon and Kethu. 


The time of reunion should be during Kethu Dasa Mercury 
Bhukti Moon Anthra Venus Shookshma. It will be in July 


1970. 
Business nnd Partnership 
Partnership : Will it continue or break ? If so, when ? 
Number given is 156. 
Judgment time—/7-30 A.M. 
Judgment Date—19-2-69. 
Judgment Latitude of the place 19*N. 


ZOE 


Horoscope for this moment, for this latitude is as follows! 


Jupiter Dasa balance 3 
VIII 12-15 yrs.2mths. 5 days. Note 
the sub lord of the 
seventn. If it is connec- 
IV 17.15 ie ted with houses 6 and 
Sun 6-51 12, the partnership will 
aves break. If it is connected 
ree with houses 5 and 11, 

Mercury more permanent tie Is to 
10.42 be correctly predicted. 


V1I17-15 


Vil 
12-53-20 


Ascendant Kethu 
12-53-20 8-41 “Why not boldly pre- 
1112-15 | Ned. 5-21 | XII 17-15] Ura 9.55 dict.” 
Mars Jup. 11-22 " 
3-48 XI 19.15 





“Boldly anybody can predict.” A child of 3 years can 
predict that its expectant mother will contribute to younger 
brother to itself. It may or may not come true. If it comes 
true, is the child an astrologer. If it fails is astrology a failing 
science or can the child escape saying that astrology shows only 
the Tendency. Correct prediction by following Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati alone is useful. So | say, predict precisely and 
correctly ?” 


“7th cusp is in 12° 53’ 20’. It is in Venus sign Moon 
star Rahu sub! 


“What results, ie. which house matters does Rahu indicate? 
Rahu is in Pisces in 8°41". 


It means it is io Saturn’s star Uthrapadra. When we 
refer to Krishnamurti Padhdhati table, Rahu is in Venus sub. 


Rahu ts to give the results of the house occupied by the lord 
of the constellation. The matter of this house will be materiali- 
sing, if the sub lord of the position occupied by Rahu is in direct 
motion. If the sub lord is retrograde, it means that the matter 
indicated by the house occupied by the lord of the constellation 
will appear to come through, but during the period or sub period 
of the sub lord, it will fall through. 


253 


Here Rabu its in the constellation of the planet in 5, promi- 
sing union, denying separation and the sub lord Venus in direct 
motion in 5, promises harmony and continuity of the partnership. 


Therefore, this partner will continue. If the circum tances, 
now, threaten that it will end, do not bother; good understand- 
ing will be had to continue the partnership. 


Suppose, | give some other number, will it not change the 
result ? 


You cannot give any other number. It is an unknown, 
unseen force which cannot be shown by doing any laboratory 
test which mysterious force without your knowledge forces you 


to give only that number, which will guide the astrologer 
correctly. 


For the same time, i.e. 7-30 A.M. 9-2-69 which number 
will show that the partnership will break. 


| told you that if the sub lord of the 7th cusp Is in the sig- 
nificator of either of the houses 6 or 12 partnership will break. 
So, if the 7th cusp falls in Aries and the sub lord is again Rahu, 
then Rahu will be in the constellation of Saturn in 6 and sub of 
Venus in 6 and Venus in direct motion will surely bring separa- 
tion in the period and sub period of the significators of the 6th 
and 12th houses. 


If Venus is in retrograde motion, attempts will be made to 
separate but separation will not be there. 


If the sub lord of the 7th cusp is the significator of 6th 
house, partner takes the initiative, the partner is bent on separa- 
tion and thereby the partnership breaks. 


If the sub lord of the 7th cusp Is the significator of 12th 
house, then the querist is bent on separation and he gets separa- 
ted. 


So, if you would have given the number 137 then 18° 6° 40° 
will be the ascendant in Libra: 7th cusp will be 18° 6° 40* Aries 
which is Rahu sub in Venus star. The fcth cusp will be 20° 6' 
40° in Pisces: Saturn and Venus will be in 6, The partner will 


2S4 


try and get out. If you would have mentioned the number 
seven, then the ascendant will be 7° 33’ 20* Aries. Sub lord 
will be In Rahu star and Rahu sub. The sub lord Rahu will be 

in the constellation of Saturn and sub of Venus in 12 and you 
yourself will leave him, drop him and drive him out smoothly 
(sub lord Venus is for smoothly, smilingly as friends get separa- 
ted ; if the sub lord is Mars, violence ; if It is Jupiter, by com- 
promise or through Court; if it is in Mercury, by giving notice 
and paying his share in instalments and So on). 


If you would have mentioned a number so that the sub lord 
of the 7th cusp is deposited in the constellation of a planet or 
node in 6 or 12 and in the sub of Jupiter (which is retrograde) 
then there will be the mind to separate, but it will not 
materialise. 


Thus partition among brothers, divorce, separation from 
wife or husband or demise can be found out. 3 and 12 houses 
show separation from mother; 3, 5, 10 and 12 demise 4 and 12 
houses indicate separation from children; 4, 6,11 and 12 show 
death. 6 and 12 from partners ; 1, 6, 8 and 12; 8 and 12 
separation from father 8, 10, 3, 12 death ; 10 and 12 separation 
from elder brother ; 5, 12 10 demise, and so on. 1 and 12 
show separation from family : 3 and 12 show separation, leaving 
the present permanent residence and living in a close-by locality: 
9 and 12 show separation and life in a far off distant place. 


Sir, as partnership should naturally and inevitably come 
to an end when either of us take eternal rest, when do you 
expect it ? 


Your ascendent—Horary is in a fixed sign. Lord of 9 
is a Bhadhakasthana adhipathi Bhadhakasthana the 9th is 
unoccupied—Owner is Moon. Jupiter and Mercury are in 
Moon’s star. Kethu is in Mercury’s sign. Hence tour end 
will be in Mercury Dasa Kethu Bhukti Jupiter Anthra. As 
you had 3 years 2 months and 5 days in Jupiter Dasa, then 
19 years of Saturn and at least 3 years of Mercury. Hence 
for 25 years more you are wedded to him in the business. 


239 


Can I expect Dowry? 


Generally, dowry is given in liquid cash or easily cashable 
valuable metals, jewels, vessels, vehicles, etc. These are indi- 
cated by the secjnd house. Since the consultant is expecting 
dowry from his or her partner, then the second house to the 7th 
Indicates the value of the dowry, and the houses 6 and 11 denote 
the partner giving the money as present and the consultant 
accepting it. Therefore, the sublord of the eighth cusp must be 
deposited in the constellation of the planet who signifies the 
matters of the houses 6 and 11. But if the sublord of the eighth 
cusp happens to be the significator of 5 and 12, then the consul- 
tant is to give. Therefore, who will give to whom is to be 
ascertained. 


Then the extent to which one can have the dowry has to be 
judged, from the strength of the lord of the constellation in 
which the sublord of the 11th is deposited. The sublord of the 
11th may be debilitated. Yet, if it were to be in the constella- 
tion of a planet which is exalted, then most satisfactory dowry 
will be received. 


Even though the sublord of the 11th cusp may be exalted, 
yet if it is in the constellation of a planet which is debilitated, 
then the dowri will be less 


Let me compare the debilitated planet for a small container 
and exalted planet for a big one. If a debilitated planet is a 
small packet, then the exalted planet, in whose constellation 
the debilitated planet is, will be similar to diamond in that small 
packet. Similarly the exalted planet is the huge container who 
is in the constellation of debilitated planet which shows that the 
content’s value is less like cotton ball. A big cotton packet 
Is not as valuable as a small packet of diamond. Small packet 
is the debiliated sublord. Diamond is the exalted constellation 
lord. 


This is the way how we have to find out whether a debili- 
tated planet or exalted planet maintains its strength. 


256 


Will he be chaste ? 


If the sublord of the 7th or the planet in whose constel- 
lation the sublord is deposited is neither Mercury nor one 
occpuying a dual sign and also if the sublord of the 11th is in 
the constellation of a planet signifying the 7th house, the 
person will remain ths chaste. When the sublord of the 11th is 
in the constellation of the planet signifying the 6th even though 
one may be moving with the other sex, yet the other sex will 
not permit to proceed beyond a particular limit and thereby the 
person has to necessarily remain chaste. 


Will | get scholarship ? 


Scholarship means non-refundable loan with a string 
attached to it. For loan one is to judge the houses 2 and 6. 

If it need not be returned, it amounts to gift, when we 
have to judge the houses 2 and 11. 


Hence he who can fulfil the conditions and enjoy the 
scholarship will have the sublord of the 11th cusp deposited in 
the constellation of a planet who is the significator of 2, 6 and 
11 and should not be a significator of 8 or 12. But he who 
gets the scholarship and then he is to repay will have the sub- 
lord of the 11th cusp deposited in the constellation of the planet 
which is the significator of not only 2 or 6 or 11 and also 8 or 
12. Because, 2. 6, 11 houses show the gain of money by 
borrowing or accepting any money given by another whereas 8 
and 12 houses indicate return or refund or lending money to 
another. 


Will | get any donation ? 


For donation judge the houses 2, 6 and 11. Any money 
received means your bank position improves—indicated by second 
house. As it is given by another, to that extent it is a loss to 
him, the giver. As it is a donation which need not be returned 
it is in full a profit. This is indicated by the 11th house. As the 
giver indicated by the 7th house loss to him is shown by the 
12 th to the 7th, 


In horary astrology, see that the sub-lord of the 8th is In 
the constellation of a planet who is the significator of the 6th. 
The sub-lord of the 6th is the significator of 2 or 6 or 11. 
Then getting a donation is promised. 


Will | get money by way of Will from my onele ? 


How is he your uncle? He is my father’s elder brother. 
Next elder to him ! 


Yes, Sir, my grandfather had only two sons, So my uncle 
is the only elder to him. 


What will be their age difference ? 
About 1 year only. Sir. 


When your grandfather can have children within an inter- 
val of one year how is it he had only two children. 


As soon as my father was born the grandfather died. 

What a pity ! Alright mention a number within 249. 

He said “43” 
Sub-lord of the sth 









cusp is in moon sub | 1x 97-45 Shite at oe 
Moon is deposited in the Sat. 12-35 | “amu tN* | XM 04S | Lone 


constellation of Mars. 
Mars is the significator af 
6 as it is the owner of the x 24-25 Il 24-45 
sixth house. So the 
person must give. 


25-OS 
Since that person is | '*24+4 

your father’s elder [Wyyo7-4s5 

brother, then the 11th Sun :: 

house counted from the | “°*.,7-** 

9th represents this uncle* 1-53-20 

Normally 7th house indicates those with whom you transact. This 
also agrees. For confirmation let us see the sub-lord of the 6th. 

It is Mars who is in the constellation of lord of 6 and in the sub 


of node in 11. 
Therefore he must give and you must receive. 


258 


Shall | commit Suicide ? 


Hello, this is a dangerous query The astrologer can very 
well hand you over to such a department which will prevent you 
from commit!ng suicide. Are you a coward? Why can’t you 
face the problems ? Are you not a man? If you want to know 
whether you would commit suicide astrological ly, the sub-lord 
of the 8th cusp must be deposited in the constellation of a planet 
who Is the significator of Badhakasthana or Marakasthana and 
also 8th house. Further the lord of the constellation must have 
some connection or other with Mars 


Will | commit Murder ? 


Note the sub-lord of your Ascendant. The lord of the sign, 
star and sub of the 7th cusp will be the ruling planets of the 
person whom you want to murder (One should note that one 
may go to murder one person but by mistake one may murder 
another). So it is important to note the ruling planet of the 
opponent. The sign where the 7th cusp has fallen is to be noted 
Note whether this seventh sign is a movable one or fixed one or 
a common one. Judge the Bhadhakasthana, Marakasthana and 
find out the significators. If the sub-lord of your ascendant Is 
deposited in the constellation of a planet which is the signifi- 
cator of his Bhadhakasthana or Marakasthana and also the 
significator of your second house then you will commit murder. 


Readers should note that | carried out the experiment with 
a friend of mine who is the owner of a few sheep. Whenever the 
gave feast to his friends, he himself found pleasure in selecting a 
sheep and slaughtering it himself. On 3 occasions | asked him 
to give a number within 249 before killing the animal and the 
above rule came very true. Only once he gave me information 
that one more kid is added to his cattle. He gave the time of 
birth. | noted down the ruling planets of that sheep. It is God 
who controls everything in which the number that the person 
gives is not excluded. When after 4 years he wanted to kill it 
| asked him to give a number and the 7th cusp in full agreed 
with the ruling planets at the moment of the birth of the sheep. 


259 


These will appear to be funny. 


| carried out experiments with the cows | had to find out 
how far prenatal epoch works. | took my cows to the 
Veterinary hospital, had them inoculated-inoculation and ejec- 
tion for co as is only once—noted the date of Inoculation and 
the delivery of the calf. | found a lot of disagreement. Later 
| collected data from maternity hospital and found that the 
prenatal epoch is not reliable and helpful whereas it is useless 
in the cases of those born with a period of one hour. Thus 
| have done experiments which are rare but which open our eyes. 
Whereabouts of Father 


“Oh father—Where are you? cries this son—having 
left his house, without any Information, the father may be 
roaming about or might have attained eternal rest. Who can 
say what could have happened to him ? or if he is alive leading 
a secluded life, who can predict scientifically except learned 
astrologers ? 


To find out the truth, horary astrology is the most correct 
method as the horoscope“of the native who is absent or that of 
the son may or may not be correct. 


So ask the son to give a number between 1 and 249. 


The son says “139”. 


Erect a chart for the moment at which the astrologer 
begins to work for the judgment. One need not worry about 
the time taken to cast the chart if he at once proceeds to work. 


Time of the commencement of the working of the chart is 
to be compared to ‘“Boopadana’” i.e., the moment when a child 
is out of the mother in full. Time of commencement of judg- 
ment in continuation without a break is similar to the child 
after a few minutes have passed from the moment of Boopadana. 
Hence one should take only the moment when one starts erecting 
a chart and in continuation offers the prediction. Now it is 
7-20 A.M. I.S.T. on 24-7-1969. Place of judgment 22° 33' 
North. 


260 


So, erect a horoseope, taking the ascendant as 20° Libra- 
Nirayana which is the position for the number 139 given by the 
son (Refer the ready reckoner given in July 1968 issue Astrology 
and Athrishta or the book Krishnamurti Ephemeris or Krishna- 
murti Padhdhati). 





As the 9th house | VI23*50' 
represents father, his 
walking out of thehous, 


should be judged from Sun 7’ 41' 
er 7-20 A M. LS.T. Mercury 

the houses 3, 9 and 12 | v 23*50 2471969 9° 24! 

counted from 9th house, 22* 33' North X 24°50! 

; ; Ayanamaa 23° 20)! 

l.e., to this lagna 11th, Ralaiice duplter 

5th and 8th houses to Dasa 6 yrs 


Libra. 9 months 4 days XI 23° 50' 


Jupiter and Kethu are 


; pee II 19* 50° Ket. 0° 28' 
in 11, Rahu is in 5 and face Mars Mer. 7°29! 

ic i 10* 03' Jup. 7° 54! 
Venus Is in 8. Nep 2° 40 XII23’ 50" 


Rahu is in Jupiter star : None in Kethu’s star: None in 
Rahu star, Saturn is in Venus star. As Jupiter Dasa is running, 
he ought to have left the house during Jupiter Dasa Saturn 
Bhukthi Kethu Anthra Rahu Shookshma in April, May 1963 or 
Jupiter Dasa Kethu Bhukthi Saturn Anthra Rahu Shookshma in 
January 1968. Now we have to see the transit on both 
occasions and fix up. 


“True, Sir: my father left on 9-5-1963”. 
“Good”. 


“Please find out when he will return if he is alive”. 


For any action done by one, the 12th house therefrom is to 
undo it. Separation came because of the significators of 3, 9 
and 12 houses counted from the 9th. Therefore take houses 2, 
8 and 11 counted from the 9th. It means judge the houses 10, 
4 and 7th counted from lagna. No planet occupies any of 
these 3 houses 10. 4 or 7. Owners are Moon, Saturn and Mars. 
No planet in Moon’s star. Sun, Mars and Mercury are in 


261 


Saturn star. Venus is in Mars star. His return will be during 
Jupiter Dasa Sun Bhukthi Venus Anthra Mars Shookshma, i.e., 
around 4th week of July, 1971. 


“How c'o you take Sun sub-period. It can be Moon or 
Mars sub-period also.” 


“True. Only here the ruling planets will guide you”, 
Now the point which rises In the east is Simha-Leo lagna. It is 
neither Karkata-Cancer, nor Scorpio. 


Secondly, the lagna is in Poorvapalguni star ruled by Venus. 
Further Moon is in Venus sign—Jupiter star. Query is to find out 
the father’s date of return. So take the ruling planets. Jupiter 
Dasa Venus Bhukthi, Sun, Moon and Mars Anthra passed away. 
So, the next date is only Jupiter Dasa Sun Bhukthi Venus 
Anthra. 


Also note the transit. Jupiter from its retrograde motion 
takes direct course in Mars sign Jupiter star in the 4th week of 
July, 197 i. Venus will be in Jupiter star Sun sub. Sun will be 
in Moon sign. Mars in exaltation in its own star. Saturn in 
Sun’s star Venus sub. So one should predict 4th Week of July, 
1971 to be the safe return of the father. 


“So, two more years.” 
“Yes, What to do?” 


“Can | pray to God, Sir? Will it not help for early 
return?” 


“Whether you pray or not, publish in the paper or not, his 
date of return will and must be 4th week of July, 1971.” 


Overseas—When ? 


Dear friend! 


One should know whether one is promised to go overseas 
or not; then alone one should think when one will be going. 
You are a wonderful boy. You select the name to be given to 
your child at the time you remain unmarried. Should not you 
find whether marriage is promised’and then whether you can 


262 


have at least one child. Therefore your query should be whether 
it is possible for you to go overseas and if so, when ? It shows 
your desire to go—good. 


You have given 57 with in 249. 


It means according to Krishnamurti Padhdhati that the 
lagna falls in Gemini 21° 46° 40°. As this is worked at 10-32 
A.M. on Thursday, the 7th August 1969, at Delhi, one is to 
erect a chart for Delhi Latitude and insert the planets for 10-32 
A.M. The following is the horoscope:— 


ee ee The 12th cusp Is to be 

ad 15-19 judged to find out 

15-27 | X11 20-20 whether one is promised 
life in a foreign place. 
1114.29 | It should be supported by 
Sun 21-09 | the sub-lord of the 9th 
cusp indicating that long 
journey is also promised. 
12th cusp is in 10-20 of 
Taurus. That is Moon 
star Kethu sub. 9<h cusp 

VI 20-20 Jupiter is in 10-20 Aquarius in 

21-46-40 | Mars v0) 2 | Rahu star Jupiter sub. 
Both Kethu and Jupiter 
are in the third house indicating that one will leave his residence 
and make journey. Hence this number promises long journey 
and life in a foreign place. 





Now let us find out the significators to note the time of 
departure, For overseas one is to judge the houses 3, 9, and 12. 
Third house extends from LEO 10-20 to VIRGO 12-20. In 
this area we find Jupiter and Kethu. Mercury is in Kethu star 
and Rahu in Jupiter star. Rahu is in the 9th house and Venus 
is in Rahu star 12th house is occupied by Venus and Saturn 
alone is in Venus star. Thus it will be seen that Mercury, 
Saturn, Venus, Jupiter, Kethu and Rahu are the significators. 
When so many planets become the significators there are two 
methods of selection after rejecting the invalid ones. 


19 - 


263 


Those planets which are not in the sub of the significators 
of 3, 9 or 12 are not useful to make the journey. But they will 
offer other results of the house which they signify. 


Also one should note the ruling planets at the moment of 
judgment. Today it is Thursday. The star is Rohini. The 
sign in which Moon moves Is Taurus owned by Venus. The 
lagna is Virgo governed by Mercury, in Moon star Hastha and 
in the sub of Venus. Therefore one is to say that during 
Mercury Bhukti, Venus Anthra and Jupiter Shookshma you will 
go overseas. At the time of judgement there were only 6 years of 
Moon Dasa left over. Mercury Bhukti commences on 7-6-1. 
In that Venus Anthra starts on 19th September, 1971. In that 
of Venus Anthra Jupiter Shookshma will be in the end of 
October and beginning of November 1971. Hence you are 
going overseas and that must be on 1-11-71. 


Any Study Overseas? 


Studies upto High 


school and College | VIII 2-46 
Rahu 0-49 | Sat. 14-35 | Ven. 18-10 


require regular atten- 
dance and study year 
after year. This is indi- 


cated by the 4th house. | Vil3-40 1771969 ee 
Higher study is shown Oe eg 
by the 9th house. No. 87 


Ayanamsa 23* 20 

9th house also shows 

long journey. 12th house 

shows life in an altogether Kethu 0-49 
new environment and | Y+46 13-46 | 112-46 
separation from family, ane ere 





Whether one will be successful in higher studies is to be seen 
from the 11th house. If the tith house is in any manner 
connected with the 9th house, success is promised. But if the 
sub-lord of the 11th cusp is retrograde, success is denied. 
Ambition cannot be realised. 


264 


Your query is about study overseas. You want to go 
abroad, for higher studies, For any study abroad, firstly, we 
have to find out whether one will go abroad at all. For this 
judge the 12th cusp and find out whether its sub-lord is either 
retrograde or deposited in a constellation whose lord Is retro- 
grade. If either is retrograde, one cannot go to foreign. If the 
sub-lord and the lord of ths constellation tn which the sub-lord 
is situated are in direct motion and if the sub-lord of the 12th 
cusp is also a significator of either 3rd or 9th or 12th house, one 
goes abroad. 


To find out the sub-lord and offer such a prediction a 
number 87, within 249, is given and from this number the 
Horary chart, cast for the moment of judgement, is given 
above. 


In this chart the 12’h cu p is Karka 3° 4(/ i.e. Moon sign 
Saturn star Saturn sub. Saturn is not retrograde. It is posited 
in the constellation of Venus who is in direct motion. 


Now what is left to be seen is whether this sub-lord of 12th 
cusp is also a significator of house 3 or 9 or 12. Saturn is 
posited in the 91h bhava. Also, it is deposited in the constel- 
lation of Venus, lord of 3rd house. Therefore you will go 
abroad. As 9th house, where the sub-lord of 12 cusp is 
deposited, indicates higher studies, you will go abroad for 
higher studies. 


Also, you will get scholarship for your higher studies. 
Why? Because Saturn, in 9th is aspecting the 11th house by its 
3rd aspect and the 6th house by its 10th aspect. 11th house 
shows gains and the 6th shows issue of cheques by a person or 
Institution which is indicated by 7th house (6th house is 12th to 
7th). 


Now comes the question of finding out the time of event. 
For this Guruji has given a most simple, sure, successful and 
scientific method—finding out the ruling planets at the moment 
judgment. 


265 


The day is Thursday ruled by Jupiter. Kethu is conjoined 
with Jupiter and Rahu occupies the sign Meena owned by 
Jupiter. So both Rahu and Kethu are stronger than Jupiter. 
Therefore take Jupiter, Rahu and Kethu. 


The sign transited by Moon is Simha owned by Sun. Take 
Sun. 


The constellation transited by Moon is owned by Kethu. 
Take Kethu. 


The lagna is Makar owned by Saturn. Take Saturn. 


Therefore Jupiter, Kethu, Rahu, Sun and Saturn will give 
the results. They will give in their conjoined period. 


Kethu Dasa is already on. In this Rahu bhukti will run 
from 7-12-1969 to 25-12-1970. During this period you will go 
abroad either in Sun Antra or Saturn Antra. 


How to see whether Saturn is stronger to give the results or 
Sun ? In the ruling planets always the lord of the sign transited 
by Moon is stronger than the lord of the day. The lord of the 
constellation transited by Moon is stronger than the sign transi- 
ted by Moon. And the lord of the lagna is still stronger than 
the lord of the constellation transited by Moon. 


So in your case Saturn is stronger than Sun to give the 
result. Also Saturn is the sub-lord of 12th cusp and occupies 
9th bhava. Therefore during Saturn Antra in Kethu Dasa and 
Rahu Bhukti you will go. This runs from 24-3-1970 to 
24-5-1970. 


The exact date on which you will go is to be found out by 
transit. Sun transits Saturn star Kethu sub in the Jupiter sign 
Meena on 25-3-1970. Therefore on this date you will go 
abroad. 


Now the question remains whether you will be successful 
in your higher studies. For this we have already said that the 
sub-lord of ilth cusp should not fee retrograde and that there 
should be a connection between the 11th house and the yth 


266 


house. Here the sub-lord of 11th cusp is not retrograde. Saturn, 
the occupant of the 9th bhava aspects 11th house by its third 
aspect. Also the owner of 9th house, Mars, is aspecting the 
11th house by its 8th aspect. This shows that the houses 


11th and 9th are connected to each other and therefore you will 
be successful. 


Success in Medical Examination and Overseas : 
“Please give a number within 249.** 
“147 comes to my mind, Sir.” 


“What is the time now, please ?** 


‘41-30 P M., Sir.” 


“Any how let me verify”, so saying | dialled 174 and the 
time given was 1 = 30 P.M. 


The following is the horoscope for judgment: 


(1) Medical examina- 
V 8-45-20 = NeReY a ee : tion means that one medi- 
cal officer or more than 
one medical officer will 
examine you before issu- 
ing a certificate, declaring 
es that you are absolutely 
at Delhi fit, that you are not suffer- 
ing from any bodily in- 
formity or incurable 
diseases which are un- 
favourable for the nature 


XII. 





0-33-20 6-45-20 of the work you have to 
carry out or to go to 
a foreign country to work there, etc. (Luckily, such a medical 


examination is not carried out on either of the sexs before 
marriage. If such a bill is introduced, | am sure many will 
remain unmarried due to congenital diseases like rheumatic 
heart, enlarged heart, etc.): therefore we have to examine the 
4th house to know whether there will be the medical examina- 


267 


tion as you desire: then we have to see whether it will be 
favourable or not! 7th house represents the medical officer 
whomsoever he is and 10th to the 7th, that is the 4th house, 
indicates his job which means yourself being examined ; the 11th 
house shows whether you will be given a good certificate to 
make further attempts. 


The 4th cusp falls in Aquarius 6° 45° 20", that is, it is in 
Rahu star and Rahu sub. Rahu is not conjoined with any 
planet but it is aspected by Venus who is the significator of the 
11th, the 7th.and the 12th. Therefore, Rahu as the significator 
of the 11th'will allow you to appear before the medical officer 
for the medical examination. As Rahu is in Saturn sign, you 
have to appear more than once, since Saturn gives success after 
a few attempts or examination. 


Disease is indicated by 6ih; danger by 8th : defect by 
12th. Here, 12th house is not occupied by any planet but 
Venus is its owner. Therefore, if it all, there is any defect it 
should be in the vision especially in the left eye, since Venus is 
in the constellation of Sun and sub of Moon; really, theie 
should be something wrong witn your eye. But luckily Sun, 
Moon and Jupiter are in the 11th house. Moon is in its 
own constellation and sub it is in 11th; Jupiter is in the 
constellation of Moon in 11 and sub of Sun 11. Sun is in the 
11th house, in the constellation of Mars and sub of Rahu. 
All planets are connected with the 10th and 11th houses. 
Therefore, even though, there is the defect in the eye, yet you 
will get through tne medical examination and your desire will 
be fulfilled. 


“Will | go Overseas” ! (Horary): 
“Give a number, please.” 


“| give number 127.” 


It means the Lagna will be in Libra and its exact position 
will be 2° 40° in Libra. The other 11th cusps are calculated and 


268 


are shown in the horoscope given below : 


VII 2-40 | VIII 2-24 IX 5-24 


VI9-24 


Rahu 
26-19 
V 11-24 


10—10—1969 


1-30 P.M. LS.T. X1 11-24 


Ket. 26-19 
Ven. 27-43 


IV 9-24 


Mere. 6-51 
XII 9-24 

Ase 2-40 |Moon 10-33 
up. 23-01 

Sun. 23-30 


II 2-24 





The houses 3, 9 and 12 
are to be judged of find 
out significators forgoing 
overseas; and the sub lord 
of the 12th cusp is to be 
judged to find out whether 
you will go at all to a 
foreign land. The 12th 
cusp falls in Sun’s sta, 
and Venus sub ; Venus is 
jn the constellation of 
sun, sub of Moon; both 
Sun and Muon are in the 

7 2th house ; Venus is to 


give the results of the lord of the constellation Chandra which 
is in 12. Hence both the lord of constellation and also the lord 
of the sub are connected with 12th house. Hence life in 


a foreign place is sure ; you must go. 


As regards the signifiactors of 3, 9 and 12, the 3rd house 
is occupied by Mars. 9th house is unoccupied and 12th house 
Is occupied by Moon, Jupiter and Sun; when you find out the 
significators, it will be seen that Sun is in the constellation of 
Mars and Rahu is in the constellation of Jupiter and Jupiter is in 
the constellation of Moon; whereas, Venus and Mercury are in 
the constellation of Sun. Thus majority of the planets are 
connected with the 12th house indicating that you must go. 


“Then when ?” is the next query. 


At the time of the judgment, Moon Dasa balance is 9 years, 
7 months, 2 days. Now Moon Dasa Moon Bhukti is operating ; 
in that, you will get pass, visa, etc., during Moon Dasa Moon 
Bhukti, Mercury Anthra, that is after 7th November, 1969 and 
before 22nd December, 1969: your journey will be during Moon 
Dasa Moon Bhukti KetIM Anthra. Kethu is occupying Sun’s 
sign, Venus star ; it is conjoined with Venus. Therefore, Kethu 


269 


is stronger than Venus and it has to give in its sub 
period, instead’ of Venus. Therefore, Moon Dasa Moon 
Bhukti Kethu Anthra you must go. That is within 10th 
January, 1970. 


Ruling planets: Today, it is Venus day, Friday, Virgo 
sign is passed by Moon; it is owned by Mercury ; star is 
governed by Moon, and according to the horary horoscope also 
these three planets are the strongest significators and so your 
going to foreign is certain. You will leave ‘Delhi on 28th 
December, 1969, early morning. It will be a Sunday and the 
star also Aslesha ruled by Mercury in Moon sign. The lagna 
will fall in Purvashada Nakshatra which will be at the time of 
Sun rise. According to transit, Sun will be in Kethu star 
Mercury sub: Moon in Mercury star ; and Kethu will be in 
Venus star Sun sign. 


Thus the two numbers which you have given, one for 
medical examination and the other for stay in the overseas, 
promise success and fulfilment of desire. May God bless 
us all! 


Research and Success: 
Number given is 203. 


Readers of my magazine know that | would have asked 
the querist to give a number within 249: Why? There are 
only 2 schools: one to have a number between 1 and 108 and 
the other to have a number between 1 and 249. Since the 
number given is 203, it should be between 1 and 249. 


But, if one consultant mentions 203 when he is asked to 
give a number within 108, then one need not bother to calculate 
but say at once that the answer is negative to the query which 
he puts: Look at bis worry. Absent mindedness! 


The Zodiac is divided into 249 divisions as _ per 
Krishnamurti: There are 249 different combinations of sign 


270 


lord, star lord and sub lord. Therefore, each number has a 
definite combination. One number less or greater given has 
different combination of planets indicating diffetent results” 
Also each number shows the exact position in the Zodiac which 
is to be taken as the ascendant 203 means Saturn sign 
Capricorn, Moon star Sravana, Sun sub 22° 40° to 23° 20' 
Nirayana. Latitude in 8° 55” 


Thereforejwe have to take that for this horary map 22* 40 
Capricorn is the ascendant (the beginning of the sub). Add 
ayanamsa 25° 20'. Then Sayana asc. k=16°Aquarius. Referring 
to* Table of Houses for this latitude, it will be seen that second 
cusp is 22° 25 Pisces; third cusp is 27° 25' Aries; by calcula- 
tion we will obtain that 4th cusp is 26° 25° Taurus; fifth cusp 
Is 22° 25' Gemini and sixth cusp is 17° 25' Cancer: The other 
6 cusps are 180° opposite. 


Position of planets for this moment is to be inserted. 


It is Monday. Time of judgment 11.30 A.M. on 17.2-’69. 
The horoscope is as follows:— 


II 22-25 
. a V 22-25 
ee Sab 2136. |r 
II] 27-25 
V1I17-25 
Sayana 17-2-69 


11-30 AM. 
VII 16 
IX 27-25 
XI 22-25 . VIII 22-25 


Ayanamsa 23.20. 





271 


Niryana chart is as follows 


Research is shown by 
wr4.05 | LY 3-05 9th house and the success 
eee in any walk of life is 
shown by ilth cusp and 
the time is to be judged 
from the significators; 
failure and loss or success 
11-30 A.M. in a foreign land are to 
be understood from 12th 
(it will be clarified 
X1 29.08 subsequently). Number 
Nep. 5-20 given shows that the 
Seen jean lagna is in Capricorn 
: 2-56 22°40". For 18 55 latitude 
11th cusp is Id 29s 5' Scorpio. It is Mars sign, Mercury 
star and Saturn sub. Neither the lord of the constellation nor 
the lord of the sub Is in retrograde motion. So one is to judge 
what the cusp promises according to the sub lord and the 
significators. Mercury is in 12th Bhava : Saturn, the sub lord 
and Venus lord of 9 are in Mercury constellation. 12th house 
shows failure and less in the place of residence or fortune and 
success in another foreign place. It depends on the lord of 
constellation in which the planet in 12 is deposited. If the lord 
of the constellation of the planet in 12 were to be situated in 1 
or 2 or 3 or 6 or 10 or 11, one gains with strangers, foreigners, 
in another place, in foregn land, etc. Otherwise, one incurs 
loss, wastes time and money. 


17—2—1969 





The constellation lord is Mercury. It shows that one 
spends time, money, etc. in a place other than bis permanent 
place. As Mercury Is in the constellation of Sun in lagna bhava 
it is well spent and success is promised. Any planet or cusp in 
Mercury constellation is also auspicipus indicating similar 
results. Saturn, the sub lord is lord of 1 and 2 in 2nd bhava in 
Mercury star and own sub. Hence Saturn is also good. There- 
fore, 11th cusp is under the sway of Mercury and Saturn; They 


promise luck in a foreign place: Success in enterprises: 
fulfilment of one’s desire and realisation of one’s ambition. 


The note the significators of 11th house. 11th house 
extends from 29’ 5' Scorpio to 24° 5' Sagittarius. No planet is 
in this area. Lord of the 11th bhava is the lord of the sign 
where Uth cusp has fallen. It is in Scorpio. Hence Mars is 
the lord of the 11th house. Sun alone is in Mars star. Therefore 
Sun and Mars are the significators of 11th house matters : For 
research, take 9th house. 9th cusp falls in Libra. It is owned 
by Venus and 9th house is occupied by Mars. We have found 
that Sun alone is in Mars star. 


As regards the owner Venus, no planet is in Venus star. 
Hence Venus indicates. In Mars, Sun or Venus sign there is 
neither Rahu nor Kethu. But Venus is conjoined with Rahu. 
So Rahu will give Venus results. Time of success will be Rahu 
Dasa Sukra Bhukti Sun Anthra Mars Shookshma. At the time 
of judgment Rahu Dasa 7 years II months 1 day had passed. 
10 years and 29 days are left over. So, Saturn Bhukti continues 
till 27-2-’°69. Then Mercury and Kethu Bhukti must pass, i.e. 3 
years 7 months 6 days and then only successful. Sukra Bhukti 
comes, i.e., 4 years 2 months from today i.e., middle of February 
1970. During Mercury and Kethu Bhukties research will go on. 

Kethu is in Budha’s sign. 


(2, 5 and Uth houses show child birth 2, 5, 6 and 11 to 
gain in speculation.) 


2, / and Il houses for marriage; 6, 9, 11 and 12, for 
overseas and higher studies, 6, 9 and 11 scholarship for higher 
studies. 

2,6, 10, 11 for promotion. 

2,4, 11 for house. 

2,411, for car. 

6 and 11 pet animals. 

2 and 11 help through younger brother. 

9,11 to submit thesis or do research and come out successful. 

4,11 for success in education. 

6, 11 to win the litigation. 


273 


6, 11 to be successful in election and so on. Thus one is 
to note that the 11 th is judged to find out success—lIn which, 
one wants success. According to that query, one is to find out 
the other house or houses to be considered. 


Here 9 and 11 houses promise success and they also show 
that it will be in the middle of February 1973. In this query, 
the bhukties which are to run before success are those of 
Mercury and Kethu. As Kethu is in Mercury’s sign it will 
continue to give what Mercury offers. If Mercury has no 
connection with 9 or 11, then he will not do research. Mercury 
is the lord of the constellation where 11th cusp is. So his 
attempts to do research will be successful in Mercury sub period. 
As it is in P, he will do it in a foreign place. 


Kethu in Mercury’s sign promises continuity. As dasa lord 
Is connected with Saturn, there will be honest and sincere 
attempts. The querist will be plodding, perservering and patiently 
working. Thus this will go on till Sukra Bhukti come. During 
Venus sub period, one is successful. Mars, lord of 10th cusp 
also promises name, fame and reputation. 


Can | expect a transfer, when ? 






Balance of Kethu Dasa 


Ven. 20-58 Sun 00-10 
2 years 3 months 2 days a LES 


: ; Moon '-02 | Mer 18-14 
For transfer in service 


we have to judge the 


houses 3, 10 and 12 pace aes a Ln 
because the 3rd house 5.20 P.M.LS.T. 
shows change of place seer 
: oO. 
and short journey, 10th | |,,..45 | Ayanamsa 23” 20' 
shows employment and | vir1-19 IV 27-19 


the 12th shows altogether 


new circumstances. 
Mars (R) 
VII 6-40 21-37 
To proceed on leave o 
to go on tour, the houses 


3, 9 and 12 are to be considered. 


VI5-19 


274 


According to K.P. the owner of a house is the owner of 
the sign where the cusp falls. Planets in the constellation of 
the owner of a House are stronger than the owner to give the 
results of that house. Further the occupant of a bhava is 
stronger than the planets in the constellations of the owner of 
the house and the planets in the constellations of the occupants 
are stronger than the occupants. All these planets will, how- 
ever, give the results of that house, but in a varying degree as 
above. 


Rahu and Kethu are nodes. They are always stronger than 
the planets represented by them. They give firstly the results 
of the planet or planets with which they are conjoined, then the 
results of the planet in whose constellation they are deposited, 
then that of the planets aspecting them and then the results of 
the owner of the sign occupied by them. 


The query is whether he can expect transfer and, if yes, 
when 7 This depends upon what dasa and bhukti he is running. 
One can expect transfer during the conjoined period of the signi- 
ficators of houses 3, 10 and 12. The significators of the houses 
3, 10 and 12 are Moon, Mercury, Kethu, Venus, Saturn, Rahu 
and Mars. Whenever the significators are more in number the 
best method to select the beneficial ones and eliminate the tempt- 
ers is to find out the ruling planets at the time of judgment 
and see which of them are common with the significators. 


Those ruling planets which are deposited In the constella- 
tion or sub of a retrograde planet wilt not read the result. Reject 
them and take the remaining. 


To-day is Wednesday ruled by Mercury. The owners of 
the sign and star transited by Moon are Mars and Kethu respec- 
tively. The lagna is Thulam governed by Venus. As Rahu is 
associated with Venus take Rahu also. (Kethu is aspected by 
Venus and is posited in Mercury’s sign. But it has already 
come as a ruling planet). 


So the ruling planets are Mercury, Mars, Kethu, Venus and 
Rahu. None of them are posited either in the constellation or 
$ub of a retrograde planet, AH of them are common with the 


significators. So you can expect transfer during their con oined 
period. 


Mars is by itself retrograde. So it will not be able to give 
the results as long as it is retrograde. Afterwards it can give. 


According to dasa-bhukti at the time of judgment, Kethu 
dasa balance was 2 years 3 months 2 days from 14-5-1969* 
The bhukti running is that of Jupiter. Jupiter is not a ruling 
planet. Then comes Saturn bhukti but Saturn is also not a 
ruling planet. Then follows Mercury Bhukti. Mercury is a 
ruling planet. So you can expect transfer either in Venus Antra 
or Mars Antra or Rahu Antra in Mercury Bhukti. depending 
upon which of these three antra lords is strong to give you 
transfer. Of the four ruling planets the lord of lagna is the 
strongest, if no node is representing it. In case a node repre- 
sents, then the node is the strongest. Therefore Rahu represent- 
ing Venus, the lord of lagna in the ruling planets, in the stron- 
gest and you will be transferred in Rahu Antra. This runs 
between 8-3-1971 and 1-5-1971. 


Transit of Sun during the above period will give the exact 
date of transfer. Sun transit Kethu star Rahu sub in the sign 
Aries on 24-4-1971. Therefore you will be transferred on this 
date/and till that date you need not expect any transfer. 


When will | get some 


job? VII 5-6-40 | VIII 4.09 
Rahu 0-34 |Sat. 14.51 


Balance of Mars Dasa 
0 year 3 months 23 days 


The 2nd house shows ee one 
one’s bank position, 6th ISssN 
shows day-to-day attend No. 109 
Ayanamsa 23° 20' 
ance and 10th shows XII 6-09 


profession Therefore for 
employment consider 
homes 2, 6 and 10 and Mars 9-44 
find out the significators III 5-09 
The significators are 





276 


(1) The planets in the constellations of the occupants 
or houses 2, 6 and 10. 


(2) Ths planets in the houses 2, 6 and 10. 


(3) Planets in the constellations of lords of houses 2, 6 
and 10. 


(Lcrd of a house is the owner of the sign where the 
cusp lies) 


(4) Lords of houses 2, 6 and 10. 


Rahu and Kethu are nodes. A node give firstly the results 
of the planet or planets with which it is conjoined, then the 
results of the lord of the constellation in which it is deposited, 
then the planet or planets aspecting it and lastly of the owner of 
the sign in which it is deposited. 


To find out the significators a number 109, within 249, is 
given and the horary chart cast from this number with the 
twelve cusps for Bombay and the planetary position at the 
moment of judgment is as given above. 


The significator of houses 2, 6 and 10 are Sun, Moon, Man, 
Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Rahu and Kethu. All these planets 
are to give results of the houses 2, 6 and 10. But those planets 
which are to give you job at the earliest opportunity are to be 
decided with the help of the ruling planets at the moment of 
judgment. The day is Tuesday ruled by Mars. The sign transited 
by Moon is Thulam owned by Venus. The constellation transited 
by Moon is that of Mars. The lagna is Dhanus owned by 
Jupiter, Rahu and Kethu represent Jupiter as Rahu occupies 
Jupiter sign Meena and Kethu is conjoined with Jupiter. 
Therefore the ruling planets are Mars, Venus, Jupiter, Rahu and 
Kethu. None of these ruling planets are posited either in the 
constellation or sub of a retrograde planet. So take them. (If 
any of ruling planets is posited either in the constellation or sub 
of a retrograde planet, reject it.) 


Now take the common planets between the significators of 
houses 2, 6 and 10 and the ruling planets. They are Mars, 
Venus, Rahu and Kethu. They will give you job in their con- 
joined period. 


m 


According to dasa-bhukti, Mars Dasa balance is 0 years, 3 
months and 23 days from 22-7-1969. The bhukti running is 
that of Moon. Moon is not a ruling planet. Therefore Mooh 
bhukti will not give. It ends on 15-11-69. Then starts Rahn 
dasa. Rahu is a ruling planet and also a strong significator. So 
you will get job in Rahu Dasa and Rahu Bhukti. In this the 
following are the antra periods which may give you job. 


(a) Rahu Dasa Rahu Bhukti Rahu Antra from 
15-11-1969 to 11-4-1970. 


(b) Rahu Dasa Rahu Bhukti Kethu Antra from 
12-6-1971 to 9-8-1971. 


(c> Rahu Dasa Rahu Bhukti Venus Antra from 9-8-1971 
to 21-1-1972. 


(d) Rahu Dasa Rahu Bhukti Mars Antra from 30-5-1972 
to 27-7-1972. 


The planets in 11th bhava and its owner indicate whether 
one’s desire will be fulfilled early or not. Sun and Mercury are 
in 11th bhava and Moon owns it. All these are fast moving 
planets. So your desire will be fulfilled at the earliest oppor- 
tunity. The earliest period, in the above four periods, is 
15-11-1969 to 11.4-1970. You will therefore get a job during this 
period if transit also agrees. Sun transits the Kethu sub and 
in Sathabisha star owned by Rahu on 1-3-1970. 


Therefore transit also agrees and you will get a job on 
1-3-1970. 


The 10th cusp shows the nature of the job. It is 5° 9° in 
Mithuna, 1.e., Mercury sign Mars star and Sun sub. So the 
nature of your job will be indicated by Mercury, Mars and Sun. 

All these three planets are posited in watery signs thereby indi- 
cating that you will have grasp, fluent flow of thoughts, 
intelligence and quick understanding. Sun indicates Government, 
Mars and Mercury indicate Mechanical Engineering. So the 
nature of job will be that of a Mechanical Engineer in Govern- 
ment. (The querist confessed that he is actually a graduate in 
Mechanical Engineering and is in search of a job). 


278 


As Mars indicates machinery, Mercury, indicates paper and 
communication and Sun indicates Government, other interpreta” 
tion about the nature of job could be a Government service in 
Printing Press. A third interpretation could be a surgeon as Sun 
indicates medicine, Mars shows surgery and Mercury shows 
correct diagnosis and quick decisions. 


Will | Earn at all? 


Number within 249, given is 7i. Time 8-30. A.M. on Sunday. 
11-5-1969 at 28° 31' N and 76° 12’ E, 


Ayanamsa 23°20". 


Ven. 19-29 


a a Mercury {XII 11-21 Jupiter Dasa balance 9 


years 2 months 26 days. 
Jupiter Dasa Mercury 
oe Bhukti over by 13-7-1969. 
VIII 4-21 Then Kethu for 11 
months 6 days; Venus 
sub period for 32 months 
followed by Sun sub 
period for 9 months 18 


III 2.21 days. 
Jup. 3.00 


Une . ee Earnings: Judge first 
Kethu’ 4.23 of all the 10th house. 

Meridian is at 4° 21° Aries in Mars sign Kethu star Moon sub. 
The sub-lord, if retrograde, you can never earn. If direct, you 
will; then the queries will be when and how ? Moon can never 
be retrograde. So you will earn. Moon is in Mercury sub and 
Mercury is in Moon star Saturn sub. Hence Moon and Mercury 
promise you fortune to have self-acquisition. 





Then, note the significators of 10th house. Saturn in direct 
motion and Sun who is ever direct occupy the 10th house. They 
are the occupants. Planets deposited in the constellation of the 
occupants are much stronger than the lords of the constellation. 
Neptune and Rahu are in Saturn’s star: (Pushya, Anuradha 
and Uthrapadra are Saturn’s stars). Sun is in its own star and 
sub.. Jupiter is in Sun’s star Uthrapalguni alone with Kethu 
(and Uranus.) 


2D 


219 


Hence the significators are Rahu, Jupiter, Kethu, Sun and 
Saturn. 


Ruling planets are Sun (lord of today—Sunday): Jupiter, 
lord of Poorvapadrapada where Moon is passing and sign 
Aquaries owned by Saturn. Gemini Is the lagna. Arudhra star 
rises in the East. Kethu represents lord of Gemini, Mercury. 
Hence take Jupiter, Kethu, Saturn, Sun and Rahu. 


It will be between 8-3-70 and 1-5-1970. 


Urge comes to one at the time when Moon touches the 
most sensitive point of the zodiac which indicates about that 
particular matter in question. When the significator touches 
that point, one has his matter materialised in one’s favour if it 
is in direct motion. One meets with f ailure on that day when 
the significator touches that point and it is retrograde. 


Of the significators, the strongest is Sun and Kethu. Sun 
is lord of 2 in tO in exaltation and in his own sub. Kethu is in 
such a Sun’s star, and in the sub of Saturn who its debilitated. 
Exaltation gives strength—debilitation, never, never denies 
but strength is weak. That is all. Hence Sun must transit 
the position of Moon. It will be on Monday 9-3-1970 Uthra- 
padra star ruled by Saturn in Jupiter’s sign, Pisces or Meena. 


Transit on 9-3-1970 is as follows : 


Jupiter dasanatha is in 
Rahu star Saturn sub ; een 
Kethu in Veuus star. Sat. 12-16 
Rahu sub; Sun in Jupite 
star Mercury sub; Moon 
in Saturn Star Rahu sub: 
Mercury in Jupiter sign 
Saturn star Moon sub: 


These are favourable. 


Lagna should be betwee 
6° 40' to 26° 46' 43". As 
mencement of judgment 





280 


lagna was in 9° 30 Gemini one can take the same, as the lagna 
at which one will take charge of his duty. 


When we work out, we will find that it will be 12-10 P.M. 
on 9-3-1970. 


Business will be either paints or petrol or pumpsets. 


You will be an agent or sales representative sub lord of 
Meridian. Moon suggests liquids. Saturn denotes mine produ- 
cts. Kethu aspected by exalted Venus conjoined with Jupiter 
shows paints. Saturn in Mars sign and Moon the sub-lord of 
Meridian indicates pumpsets. 


If Saturn is not in Aries, it indicates boilers: Saturn denotes 
under the “arth; Moon, the liquid; otherwise, sub lord Moon 
liquid; lord of the sign, Mars being a fiery planet, boiling: 
Hence one should then predict boilers. 


If one predicts pumpsets or paints or petrol, he will 
correctly and clearly guide the consultan . 


(Pumpset needs painting and petrol or oil to run it.) 


GOOD LUCK! 


“Can 1 become a Politician ?” 
“When can | be a famous person ?” 


“Good. Give me a number within 249.” / 


“One. | want to become number one. So, | give this 
number. Also tell me please, what | should do,” asks a boy 
aged 15 in whose horoscope, he says that many planets are 
exalted. 


“You should study law, if you want to be a lawyer; 
Chemistry, if you desire to be a chemist medicine, if you have 
to become a doctor; but for politics, as Max O’Rell says “you 
need only to study your own interest. Also you should know 
what Wendell Philips had said, ‘Two kinds of men generally 
best succeed in poittical life; men of no principle, but of great 
talent; and men of no talent, but of one principle that o 


281 


obedience to their superiors. Do you want to serve for the 
prosperity of your country or what ?” 


“Charity begins at home, is what all say : But | want to 
do good so that my children and grandchildren will lead a 
pleasant and peaceful life. There should be discipline, security 
for life, security of property, etc, | do not want to be a 
minister but | want to serve and satisfy the mass.” 


“Then say that you want to become a statesman.” 


“What is the difference between a politician and a 
statesman ? 


“A politician acts in such a way always bearing in his or 
her mind the next election. But a statesman cares more for the 
welfare of the next generation. A politician will form a party 
and join such a party which come out successful whereas a 
statesman minds only the progress and prosperity of his country; 
so, a statesman will guide and direct his course of action, 
whereas a politician will yield, adjust to circumstances and be 
satisfied to drift.” 


“Thanks, Sir ; 1 want to be a statesman. Can | become a 
famous statesman.” 


‘So, just like a coachman follows his hordes but he holds 
on the reign and at appropriate time guides them, you should 
conduct yourself. You should remember what Coleridge has 
advised. “The three great ends for a statesman are, security to 
possessors, facility to acquirers and liberty and hope to the 
people.” 


“You can become a famous statesman, by doing nothing 
yourself but causing everything to be done. Leave nothing to 
chance: be attentive night and day: see into failure: do not 
regard the present: then only you can change a nation from 
what it is to what it ought to be.” 


“Yes ! What does my number one ndicate?” 


“First It shows that you need advice for success. So | did. 
Now 1 shall predict.” 


282 


Whenever Saturn is in lagna one should have patience and 
perseverance. Don’t you know that people who want to do 
good, never get discouraged if they are defeated once, twice and 
soon. What is perseverance? Do-s it not clearly show that 
a few attempts fail and again an attempt is made. 


Nothing is impossible. Can 1 go round the world. | have 
no conveyance, etc. Johnson said, “He that shall work, with 
vigour, three hours a day, will pass in seven years, a space 
eqeal to the circumstances of the globe. So you be making 
attempts. When once you start this noble enterprise, do not 
leave it: go ah$ad. 


The horoscope is as f ollows : 


Fifth house shows 


II 2-53 
; : Venus Move 

one’s desires to become a 19-15 16.30" 

politician or a statesman. | Rabu 425 III 28-53 


There is no planet in the 
5th Bhava. But the 
owner of the sign Cancer 

where the 5th cusp is a ee 

Moon ; sub-lord and the 28®-40' N 
lord of the constellation | x1 16-53 
are both Mercury. It is 
in the second house. It 


oi IX 28-53 
is in the constellation of Mars Jup. 3-01 
lord of 5 in 11. There- 12-22 (R) Kethu 4-25 


VII 2-33 





fore Mercury promises 
grand success and success after success as it is Mercury. 


“When, Sir ?” 


As Moon is in 17° 19’ in Aquarius Rahu Dasa balance will 
be 3 years 7 months 14 days. Mercury sub period is to come. 
Now you have to judge the following Dasas. Saturn, in direct 
motion as lord of 11 in the constellation of Kethu in 6 shows 
success and realisation of ambition. But, note in which sub it 
is: who the sub lord is: it is Jupiter who is retrograde. There- 
fore in the period of Saturn, Saturn will tempt but cannot fulfil 
you desire. 


283 


But Mercury is in the constellation of planet in 11 and sub, 
of planet in 1 owning 11: Hence Mercury Dasa alone will keep 
you at the top, make you popular and satisfy you by the 
results. 


“You did not discuss about Jupiter Dasa.” 


“Yes, it is retrograde: As it is in Saturn sub, | predict 
that you will be friend politicians and slowly come up. But 
your query is about your game in Politics: So it will be only in 
Mercury Dasa.’ 


“So”. 

“So, it will take 38 years from to-day.” 
“Oh God 1 | will be then nearly 53”. 
“Yes. That is your luck.” 


Promotion and Overseas—Same Number: 


Number given is 125 within 249, 


sun Dasa balance 1 
year 4 months 25 days. | v1525 
Rahu 1-12 
Promotion: Judge 
houses 2, 6, 10 and 11. 
V 6-25 
; 11-00 A.M. LS.T. 
Second house is occu 10—7—1969 
: 22* 33'N 
pied by Mars No planet Horary Chait 
is in Mars constellation. | rv 3-25 
6th house is unoccupied- 
constellation. 10th hous 


Owner is Jupiter, Sun 
) : & II 29-25 
, W10-25 |Mars8-24 | 40; 
remains vacant. Ruler 


and Rahu are in Jupiter’ 
is Moon. Venus ts in Moon star. 





11th is tenanted by Kethu owned by Sun. No planet jg 
in Kethu star. Moon, Kethu and Jupiter are in Sun star. 


Ruling planets are Sun, Venus, Jupiter and Mercury, lord 
of lagna, now represented by Kethu, 


284 


Therefore the period. can be Sun Dasa Kethu Bkuktl 
Jupiter Anthra or Sun Dasa Venus Bhukti Jupiter Anthra. 


Therefore it can be around 10-10-69 or 1st week of June 1970. 
As per transit June 1970 is favourable. 
Therefore 1st week of June 1970 you will be promoted. 


The significators of profession Venus, Moon, Jupiter and 
Mercury show that either you are a finance adviser or auditor 
or accountant. So in the same line, you will have the next 
higher status. 


As Moon Dasa follows Sun Dasa, you can expect another 
life during Moon Dasa, Jupiter Bhukti, Venus Anthra, ie , in 
July 1974. This will be the final highest stage which you are 
destined to have. 


Overseas r 


The same chart is used, Judge houses 3, 9, and 12. Third is 
unoccupied ; but is owned by Jupiter. 


Nineth is occupied by Sun and Mercury; Moon is in Sun’s 
star. No planet is in Mercury star. Kethu represents and acts 
as an agent of Mercury. 


Twelfth is occupied by Jupiter. Jupiter is represented by 
Rahu occupying the 12th sign of the Zodiac. 


Moon Dasa will give overseas. Rahu cannot give as it is 
in the sub of the planet in a fixed sign. Jupiter in the sub 
of Mercury is advantageous. Mercury in the sub of Saturn is 
good ; Sun in the sub of Mercury is favourable. Moon Dasa. 
Jupiter Bhukti, Moon Anthra, will give in October/November 
1974. 


Prosperity of the Institute : 


One is running an educational Institution. One wants to 
know about Its progress. 


Within 249, number given is 5 on 21-9-68 at 12-30 P.M. 
1.S.T. at 28’ 40'N. 


Venus Dasa balance 9 
years 1 month 6 days. 


285 
Sat 0-35 
Rahu Lagna 117-16 III 2-16 
16-41 | 4-46-40to| H7- IV 25-16. 
5-33-20 
XII 24-16 V 21-16 
5 
11th cusp shows the 12-30 P.M. LS.T. 


fulfilment of desire and 28* 40* N Man 6-23 
the 10th indicates name ee Moon 

7! XI 21-16 20-36 
fame, reputation, etc. VI 24-16 


11th cusp falls in Moon Jup. 25-44 
starVenlis sub. 


V 25-16 wire ae ein Sun 4-59 
Venus in the 6th house IV 2-16 : erc. 1- 
indicates success. 


10th cusp is in \enus star Mercury sub. Both are in 6, 
Both are benefics. They also promise absolute satisfaction. 





Will it prosper ? Is it 
promised? Should be the 
first, to be observed ? 






The progress is to be judged by taking into consideration, 
the dasa running. 


Now Venus Dasa Jupiter Bhukti is on. It will run up to 
27-8-70. 


Then 27-8-70 to 27-10-73 Saturn will rule. 27-10-730nwards 
Mercury till 27-8-76. Then up to 27- 10-77 Kethu Bhukti. 


Let us judge, what each planet can contribute. Sun is in 6. 
It is in its own constellation. It is also lord of 6. It is in the 
sub of Saturn in 12. Hence in between 27-10-1977 and 
27-10-1983, there will be the leceipt of much donation, to erect 
bulidings, repair and extend (Saturn indicates consolidation and 


renovation). 6th house denotes money received. 12th indicates 
Investment purchases, etc. 


One is to predict the future of an Institution, just like the 
future of a person. Moon is in 5. It is also lord of 5. It is in 
the constellation of Venus in 6. Therefore, more receipt from 
musicians, chemical manufacturers and Industrialists, Engineers, 
Manufacturing Engineering goods, etc., Automobile Engineers 
and dealers. Mars Dasa 7 years will be the years of expansion, 
Improvement etc. The results will be most encouraging. The 


286 


reputation of the Institution will reach a new height. Circula- 
tion of publication and gains through books and periodicals 
will shoot up. Mars in the constellation of node in 6 promises 
grand success. 


Rahu Dasa 18 years will prove to further improving as 
Rahu ts in the constellation of Mercury in 6. 

Jupiter Dasa 16 years shows much advantages. Saturn in 
Kethu star denotes renovation, expenses and equal receipts of 
donation. 


The peculiarity is this. | know that this institution will 
expand slowly, steadily and surely. It is my prayer also. 
Astrologlcally, others to give and one to receive is indicated by 
6th house. 


6th house matters are indicated by planets posited in the 
constellation of occupants ; then the occupants and so on. 
Jupiter, Sun, Kethu, Venus and Mercury are all in 6. 


Jupiter star is not occupied by any planet and so Jupiter 
Is very strong. Sun In 6 governs Karthik, Uthrapalguni and 
Uthrashada. Sun alone is in its star and Sun is a strong signifi- 
cator. Kethu governs Aswini, Makha and Moola, Saturn and 
Mars are in Kethu star. Venus its in 6 and Bharani, Poorva- 
palguni and Poorvashada are ruled by Venus. Moon and Jupi- 
ter are in Venus star. Mercury is also in 6. Asblesha, Jyeshta 
and Revathi are ruled by Mercury and Rahu is posited there. 


Thus it can be seen that all planets promise that there are 
many to contribute and see” that the Institute grows up and 
expands like anything. 


Saturn is lord of 12. No planet is in Saturn star. Hence 
during the periods and sub periods of Saturn, there will be 
expenses outweighing income. No doubt there will be receipt 
more than normal; but expenses will go still higher. Further 
Saturn brings about changes in the organisation during Saturn 
Dasa Kethu bhukti Always the conjoined period of Saturn and 
Kethu must bring change in the organisation. So immediately 
during Saturn Bhukti Kethu Anthra in Venus Dasa (Septr , 1971) 
pnc chief organiser will pass away. Then during Kethu bhukti 


287 


Saturn anthra in Venus dasa, the other will pass away (July, 
1977). After reorganisation, no vast improvement. There will 
be steadiness. 


When will I be promoted ? 


Balance of Sun Dasa 
Sat. 13-28 |" 797 | Sun 16-07 | only 11 days. 
II 27-26 7 IV 19-26 
Mer. 25-47 
The horary chart 
showing the twelve cusps 
for the given number for 
1—7—1969 as 
530 P.M.LS.T. Bombay with position of 
18-55 N. the planets at the time 


No. 247 . . : 
X115.17 | Ayanamia 23* 20 of judgment is as given 
VI 17-17 above. 


Moon indicates what 
SaaS you have in your mind, 
se i.e. the nature of query 
etc. Moon is in 10th in 
the constellation of Sun (owner of 6th) and sub of Venus 
(occupant of 2nd). Further Saturn (owner of 11th) aspects 
Moon by its 10th aspect. Jupiter (owner of 10th) aspects Moon 
by its 5th aspect. Therefore the query is regarding the houses 
2,6,10 and 11. These houses put together indicate promotion. 
Therefore the query is regarding promotion. But these houses 
2,6, 10 and 11 will be present in everybody’s chart and we can 
find out the significators in all these cases. Does it mean that 
all these persons are promised promotion ? No! Some may be 
promoted, others may not be. 


IX 24-17 
VIII 27-26 





So, what one must necessarily see first Is whether one is to 
get promotion at all. For this consider the 11 th cusp and find 
out whether the lord of the sub of the 11th cusp is either retro- 
grade or deposited in a constellation whose lord is retrograde. 
If either is retrograde, one cannot get promotion. If the sub-lord 
and the lord of the constellation In which it is situated are in 
direct motion and if the same sub-lord is also a significator of 
houses 2 or 6 or 10 or 11, then promotion is promised. Other* 


wise not. Fulfilment of all these three conditions is a must. If 
any one of them is not fulfilled, promotion is not guaranteed. 


In your case the Uth cusp is 15° 17° Makar, i.e. in Saturn 
sign Moon star and Jupiter sub. Jopiter is not retrograde. 
It is deposited in the constellation of Sun who is never retro- 
grade. Sun is owner of 6th house and therefore Jupiter is also 
a significator of 6th house. Therefore all the three conditions 
are fulfilled and you are promised promotion. The further 
procedure is to find out the ruling planets at the moment of 
judgment; take out common planets in the ruling planets and 
the significators; then work out the dasa-bhukti period of these 
common planets and finally pin-point the date by the help of 


transist. 


The significators of all the t welve houses are tabulated as 


under: 


House 
Significators 


I Sun, Mars, Jupiter, 
Saturn, Rahu, Kethu. 
II Mars, Mercury, Venus , 
Saturn, Kethu. 

Ill Sun, Moon, Mercury, 
Jupiter, Venus, 
Saturn, Rahu, Kethu. 

IV Mercury, Kethu, 

V Moon 
VI Sun, Moon, Jupiter, 
Venus, Rahu, Kethu. 
Vil Mercury, Kethu, 
VIII Mars, Mercury, Venus. 
Saturn, Kethu. 

IX Mars, Mercury, Kethu. 
X Sun, Moon, Jupiter, 
Rahu, Kethu. 

XI Mars, Saturn, 


XII Sun, Mars, Saturn, Rahu. 


Planets signifying 
bouses 


Sun 1, 3, 6, 10, 12, 
Moon 3, 5, 6, 10. 
Mars 1, 2, 8, 9. 
11, 12. 
Mercury 2, 3, 4, 7, 8, 
9 


Jupiter 1, 3, 6, 10, 
Venus 3, 6, 8, 
Saturn ,1 2, 3, 8, 
11, 12. 
Rahu 1, 3, 6, 10, 12, 
Kethu 1, /, 3, 4, 6, 
7, 8,», 10. 


From the above table, the significators of the housed 2, 6, 
IQ and 11 are Mars, Mercury, Venus, Saturn, Kethu, Sun, 


289 


Moon, Jupiter and Rahu. All the nine planets are significators, 
Of these Mars is in retrograde motion. Those planets which 
are themselves retrograde in motion but posited in the constel- 
lation and sub of planets indirect motion, will give results after 
they become direct. They however can’t give results as long as 
they are retrograde. But if a planet, even when it is direct, it 
deposited in the constellation or sub of a retrograde planet, it 
will appear to give results but will ultimately fall through. Mars 
will therefore be able to give results only after it becomes direct. 


The significators are many in number. The best method to 
eliminate the unfavourable ones Is to find out the ruling planets 
and then find out the common between them and the signifi- 
cators. This common planets will give the result during their 
conjoined period. They day is Tuesday owned by Mars. The 
sign transited by Moon is Makar. Saturn owns it. The star 
transited by Moon is Uttarashada owned by Sun and the 
Lagna is Scorpio owned by Mars. So the ruling planets are 
Mars, Saturn and Sun. They are also significators. So they 
will give you promotion during their conjoined period. 


As Ilth house is owned by Saturn, there will be delay in 
fulfilment of your desire. Further the same Saturn is lord of 12th 
and is posited in horary lagna. This is undesirable. Horary 
lagna is spoiled. This indicates that there will be lot of obstacles 
and hindrances in the way of your promotion and Saturn will 
delay the promotion till such time that you will feel frustrated 
and start thinking that the promotion will not come at all. But 
the same Saturn is lord of llth and also a ruling planet and 
therefore it has to give you promotion. It will play a double roll 


Anything in life which is promised by the planets will be 
experienced when dasa-bhukti of the common planets between 
significators and ruling planets operates. (Suppose child birth 
was promised to a person and even for 10 years after marriage 
no child was born. This is because the particular dasa-bhukt 
was not operating. Once it operates, he will have). 


Similarly in the above case, though promotion is promised, 
it will come only when dasa-bhukti of promotion promising 
planets operates. 


290 


Sun’s dasa balance is only 11 days from 1—/7—1969. After 
that Moon Dasa will run. But Moon is not a ruling planet. 
So during Moon Dasa you will not get promotion. (Actually, 
Saturn aspecting Moon by its 10th aspect will throw obstacles 
during Moon Dasa). Then comes Mars Dasa. Mars is common 
in both significators and ruling planet. So it will give promo- 
tion during its dasa. 


Mars Dasa starts on 12-7-1979. It will run for seven years. 
In Man Dasa Saturn Bhukti must come. In Saurn Bhukti 
Sun Antra must come and only then you will get promotion. 
Mars Dasa Saturn Bhukti Sun Antra runs between 2-7-1982 and 
22-/-1982. Therefore you will be promoted in the month of 
July 1982. Till then Saturn will bring lot of obstacles, failures 
frustration, etc. 


Higher Status—Any | When 7 
Time of judgment g 6-30 A.M. 


Place of judgment: Delhi 
Date: 6-10-1969. 


Number given by the gentleman Is 248. 


So the horoscope for the moment of judgment for 28-40 N. 
is as follows :— 


(Mercury Dasa Balance 
ad ITT 25-00 | TV 18-00 16 years 1 month 3 days 
Is there any promo- 


Rahu 
26-33 
XI 14-00 


tion ? Find out the sub 
of the 11th cusp and 
note down the houses 
signified by the sub-lord. 
v114-00, | 11th cusp Is in Capricorn 
ven 22-26 | at 13 degrees. So it is in 
ethu 

the star of Moon and sub 


Mere 7-.02| Of Rahu. Rahu is in Kum 

ei bha in 12; it has to give 
the results of 11 as there 

is no planet in 11 and its 


IX 13-00 





291 


lord ii also the lord of the sign where Rahu Is. Hence Rahu 
signifies the 1J th house. Further Rahu is in the constellation of 
Jupiter who is occupying the 6th house. Therefore Rahu is to 
give the results of 6, 11 and 12 What does this combination, 
indicate? It shows that one gets promotion by being selected 
for that post even though there is competition (6th) and there is 
change in the nature of the work, (12th). As it has nothing to do 
with the third house, it will not be out of the place where he is 
at present working. 


When will the Promotion come ? 


Now the period is Budha Dasa, Budha Bhukti, according to 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati, planet will give the results of the lord 
of the constellation in which it is situated and if the lord of the 
constellation is retrograde then the matter will fall through. It 
will appear as though it will happen but it will not fructify. 
Here the lord of the constellation in which Mercury Is deposited 
is Sun. Sun can never be retrograde in motion. Sun is repre- 
sented by the node Kethu as Kethu is deposited in Leo owned 
by Sun. As Kethu is conjoined with Venus, it will give the 6th 
house results also as Venus is in 6 in its own constellation. 


Therefore at the time Budha transits the Ilth cusp the good 
news will be heard, and when Sun transits 13 degrees of 
Capricorn the order of promotion will be received and you will 
take charge on the 28th January, 1970. The day will be 
Wednesday and the star will be Hastha. 


The ruling planets at the moment of judgment are Mercury 
and Moon. Moon rules the day and the sign where Moon is 
transiting now. Mercury is the lord of the star where Moon is 
now. According to Dasa and Bhukti, it will be Mercury Dasa 
Mercury Bhukti Mars Anthra Jupiter Shookshma. Mars Is lord 
of 2 and significator of 2 as there is no planet in its star ; Mars 
is in the constellation of Venus in 6 and sub of Sun, owner and 
depositor of 6. Hence 28th January, 1970 must offer you the 
desired promotion. 


292 


Seniority in Service: Will | have Justice ? 


“Sir, we have come to request you to find out whether our 
grievance about our seniority question will be solved and we will 
be restored our rightful seniority.” 


“All right. Will each one of you please mention a number 
between 1 and 249 ? 


‘A’ immediately gives No. 184. The other person ‘B* 
mentions No. 75. 

Day and date of judgment: Friday 8-8-1969. 

Tinie of judgment: 9-33 A.M. (1ST) 

Place of judgment i 28° 40' N 77° 12’ E. 


The number 184 given by ‘A’ places lagna in Guru’s sign 
Dhanus, Sukra’s star Poorvashada and Kethu’s sub: Kethu’s 
sub commences at 28° 53' 23* and the Ayanamsa for 1969 being 
23° 20', the Sayana position of the lagna should be Capricorn 
(Makara’: 19° 13° 20*. For latitude 28° 40' North, the cusps of 
other houses according to Sayana system are: 2nd cusp in 
26-56 Aquarius (Kumbha); 3rd cusp 3-56 in Aries (Mesha); 4th 
cusp in 5-56 in Taurus (Rishaba); 5th cusp in 1-56 Gemin 
(Mithuna); 6th cusp in 24-56 Cancer (Kataka) and so on. 
Deducting the Ayanamsa, we get the Nirayana positions of the 
cusps as follows: 


2nd : 3-36 Aquarius (Kumbha) 

3rd : 10-36 Pisces (Meena) 

4th : 12-36 Aries (Mesha) 

5th : 8-36 Taurus (Rishaba) 

6th : 1-36 Gemini (Mithuna) 

7th : 25-53-20 Gemini (Mithuna): and so on. 


After calculating the positions of the planets for 9-30 A.M. 
(1ST) 9-8-1969, the horoscope is as follows : 


(Mars Dasa Balance: 5 years 2 months 16 days) 


Now, which houses are to be referred to find out whether 
pne’s grievance regarding his seniority will be redressed and he 


293 


will be restored to his rightful place. First, note the sub-lord of 
the cusp of the 11th house. The 11th cusp falls in Scorpio 
(Virschika) 8-30, I.e., in 
HI 10-36 Pee : : Anuradha star governed 
15-28 : by Saturn—Sani and in 
the sub owned by Venus 
(Sukra). As Venus is situ- 
ated in the constellation 
of a planet in the 2nd 
Bhava (Rahu Its in 2) and 
as Venus is the ruler of 
the 10th house and occu- 
pies the 6th, surely he will 
Lagna have his seniority ques- 
ee xT 1046 | tion settled in his favour. 
At the time when the 


significators of 10th and 11th houses operate, you must have It 
redressed to your satisfaction. The Meridian (the 10th house 
cusp) falls in Sukra’s sign Thula (Libra), in Rahu’s star Swathl, 
and in the sub of Mercury (Budha). No planet is situated in the 
10th house Saturn alone ts in star of Venus, lord of 10. 11th 
house is owned and occupied by Mars (Mangal), and Moon 
(Chandra) alone is in Mars Dasa. Therefore, at the time when 
Mars Dasa Rahu Bhukti Sukra Anthra Sani Shookshma runs 

on 21-11-1969, you will know that your seniority is restored and 
you have your legitimate upgrading, increase in income and 
improvement in status. 





For number ‘75’ applying the same principles, it has to be 
predicted that his grievance will be redressed and he will gain 
only when he runs the dasa of Mars (Mangal), bhukti of Rahu, 
anthra of Sani and shookshama of Sani on 10-1-1970. 


Change in Job: 


“Sir, | am at present employed in Calcutta. Will there 
be any change in my present occupation, I.e., will there be any 
change from the present occupation to a new one. If so, will 
the change bring good to me. Can | accept the change ?” 


294 


He continues : 


“Since | do not have with me my date of birth and the 
time, | am giving below a number, my place of birth and 
my star. 


Number 144. 
Birth place: Koduvayur, Palghat District. 


Star; Vishakam 


In querant’s own words, he has no time and date of birth 
to give and wishes his query to be answered on the basis of 
Horary Astrology. Horary Astrology is helpful in prediction 
even when the birth horoscope is available because, while the 
birth chart is likely to be iccorrect when worked out on the 
basis of incorrect birth times, the horary or prasna chart is 
never so. Further the positions of the planets in the heavens at 
the time an astrologer takes up the query for answer will bear 
a definite relation to the query—the urge to answer is created in 
the astrologer’s mind only at such a time when there is an inter- 
relation between the matter in question and the heavenly positions 
of the planets. Horary Astrology reveals the answer accurately 
and is quite scientific. Horary Astrology, in other words, is a 
cross-verification of the results computed on the basis of the 
natal horoscope, the dasa bhukti, etc., and will give the same 
answer as that obtained from a reading of birth horoscope—in 
fact, much more accurately clearly and to the point than the 
natal chart where one gets many alterations. Indeed, the 
horary system is much more useful than the natal chart to find 
out answer to specific questions. It should not be dismissed as 
one unworthy of use in the way a few do. While our ancient 
seers who gave us the various slokas were possessed of great 
intuition, they did not expect us to remain static and only 
remain content quoting from their scriptures. Just as the swan 
when given milk combined with water throws away the water 
and takes only the pure milk, we will not be indulging in any 
wrong if we discard those methods which have failed us in 
actual practice and take only those that have proved correct. 
Astrology has been lying low all this time because no one took 


21 


295 


pains to develop the science and develop it along scientific lines. 
No wonder that when a new, scientific method of analyls is 
presented, there is great aversion in those circles trading in the 
name of traditional astrology. 


Krishnamurti Padhdhati, for instance, presents astrology in 
a new way stressing the effects based on constellations; the 
constellations, in turn, are divided among the nine planets in the 
same proportion as the years ruled by them in the Parasara’s 
Dasa system of 120 years. Thus, when a native is born with 
Chandra at birth in Guru's constellation Punarvasu he is said 
to run the dasa of Guru and not of Chandra, the effects will be 
what Guru has to offer and not what Chandra has to offer. 
Krishnamurti Padhdhati is thus only a development of this 
aspect and a corrective one; it is quite rational and scientific 
than all the available systems of prediction and throws wide 
scope for study. 


Let us now come back to the subject-matter of the query 
which is about change in occupation of the querant. The 
number mentioned by him is 144 (out of 249). The Zodiac of 
12 signs and 27 constellations is further sub-divided, according 
to Krishnamurti Padhdhati, into 249 sub-divisions, so much so 
any part of the zodiac will have three planets ruling it, the sign 
or rasi lord, the constellation lord and the lord of the sub- 
port,on of the constellation. On this basis, the number ‘ 141 * 
represents that area in the zodiac which lies between 28 degrees 
46 minutes and 40 seconds In Thula (Libra) and 29 degrees 
26 minutes and 40 seconds. As this particular area commences 
at 28 degrees 46 minutes 40 seconds in Thula, this will be the 
lagna for the query. The cusps of the other houses for the 
query will be drawn by referring to the Table of Houses by 
Raphael for the latitude of the place where the query is 
answered. If 28 degrees 46 minutes 40 seconds in Thula is to be 
the lagna according to the Nirayana of the-Indian system, then 
the Sayana position of the lagna will be 21° 46* 40’ added by 
the Ayanamsa, i.e. 23° 21’ for 1969, i.e. 22° 6’ 40* Vrischika 
(Scorpio). A look at the Raphael’s Table of House, page 


296 


containing the table for Latitude 28° 40° N which is the latitude 

of Delhi, will show what the cusps of the other houses, namely, 
10, 11, 12, 2 and 3 will be according to the Sayana system 
when 22° 6’ 40'; Scorpio (Vrischika) rises in the East. The 
positions of ihe cusps in Sayana system so obtained will have to 
be deducted by the amount of Ayanamsa for the year under 
reference so as to get the nirayana positions of the different 


cusps. Thus, for the lagna 28” 46* 40' we get the other cusps 
of houses as fellows:— 


Lagna 28° 46’. 40’. (Thula) 
Cusp of 2nd house 28* 40° (Vrischik) 
Cusp of 3rd home 0* 40° (Makara 
Cusp cf 10th house 4* 40' Simba) 
Cusp of llth house 6* 38’ (Kanya) 
Cusp of i2th house 4° 41' Thula) 


The other six cusps are exactly opposite, i.e,, the cusp of 
the 7th house is the opposite to lagna; that of the 8th opposite 
to 2nd, and so on. 


The complete horoscope for the query based on number 
144 and for the time when the query was taken up for answer 
(11-30 AM. Saturday, the 11th October, 1969) is as follows: — 


VI 4-40 
13.31 (R) WIE 28-40 Balance of Chandra at 
Vill the time of query=0 year 
25 ie months 28 days. 


" The query concerns 
change in occupation, 
No given 144 whether it would prove 
fruitful or otherwise. The 
2nd house of the horos- 
cope stands for financial 


gains; the 6th governs 
Mangal | II 28-40 , service and the lOthhouse 
Peee PNR eh (Meridian) denotes occu- 
pation, trade, business, 
profession, etc. In Hindu Astrology, it is said that planets 





297 


which are in 6, 8 and 12 to any house do not contribute to 
the matters influenced by that house ; similarly, the houses 
which are in 6, 8 and 12 to any house are considered to negate 
the affairs influenced by the house concerned. On that basis, 
houses 3, 5 and 9 respectively happen to be in 6, 8 and 12 to 
the house of profession or occupation and consequently the 
planets signifying these houses will contribute, in their conjoint 
period, to change in profession, the native taking leave, etc. 
(The third house as we all know rules short journeys or journeys 
to nearby places; the 5th house rules pleasurable pursuits; and 
the ninth house represents journeys to far off places and pilgri- 
mage. If one really notes the periods he is running whenever 

he is on leave temporary absence from Official duties, he will 
find these periods governed by the planets which are the 
significators of houses 3, 5 and 9.) 


Let us now work out the significators : 





Planet incons- |Planet occupying|Planet constelta-] Planet owning 
House! tellation of B house tion for (D) house 
(a) (b) C (d) 
2 Guru Mangal Guru | Mangal! 
OB. it fees Sani Guru Mangal 
10 i Sani Kethu Sukra | Surya 
| Kethu Sukra Budha 
Mangal 
5 — _— Rahu Guru 
9 — { — Chandra Chandra 
3 — _ — Sani 





Rahu, a node, in Sam’s sign Kumbha is an agent of Sani, 
Kethu, likewise, represents Surya in whose sign it is and Sukra 
with which it is conjoined. 


Now, before proceeding to analyse, we should find out 
whether the mind of the querant is correctly reflected by the 
position of the Moon. The Moon for ages has been considered 
to be the reflector of the mind. Its position shows the matter in 
contemplation in the querant’s mind. Chandra now is in Kanya 
22 deg 33 min., that is, in its own constellation and sub of 
Sukra. Chandra owns the ninth house and it is a strong 


298 


slgnificator of that house, there being no planet situated in that 
house or occupying any of the three constellations governed by 
it. Chandra is in the sub of Sukra, who, as lord of | and 12, is 
situated in the 10th house. The query is doubly confirmed. 


Will there be any change in any occupation to a new one? 


Lord of the 10th house, Surya, who incidentally is also the 
Karaka for professional matters, is situated in the labhasthana 
In conjunction with Guru owning the 5th house and Chandra 
owning the 9th house. Further Chandra is the lord of the sign 
of the cusp of the 9th house and Guru is the lord of the 
constellation ruling the cusp of the 9th house. There is bound 
to be a definite change from your present occupation to a new 
One and it will be a satisfactory one. 


If so, will the change bring good to me ? 


Lord of 10, Surya, is situated in the 11th house: it 
occupies the constellation ruled by Mangal and sub of 
Rahu. What do the planets Mangal and Rahu signify ? 


Mars (Mangal) is a significator of —(a) House 2, because it 
occupies that house as its lord; (b) House 6 because it owns it: 
and (c) Hou’es 10, 12 and 1 because it is posited in the constel- 
lation of Sukra who owns lagna and 12th house and occupies 10. 


Rahu signifies—(a) House 5 as it is in the constellation 
ruled by Guru, lord of 5; tb) House 4 which it occupies; and 
(c) Houses 3 and 6 as It occupies Sani’s sign and as such acts as 
its agent (Sani rules 3 and is in 6). 


The conjoined influence of Mars and Rahu denotes gain as 
a result of changes in occupation and realisation of ambitions, 
honour, etc. Unhesitatingly, the native should go In for this 
change. 


When will this change come about? 


Surya who rules the 10th house of the horary chart, Guru 
who rules the 5th house and Chandra who rules the 9th house 
and who are conjoined closely at the time of the query also 


299 


happen to rule the moment: Giiru as lord of lagna, Chandra as 
lord of constellation and Surya conjoined to them. Thus, when 
Surya comes by transit to Guru’s sign Dhanus, Surya’s star 
Uttarashada and the sub ruled by Chandra, i.e., 27-20-00 to 
28-26-40, on Monday, the 12th January 1970 when the native 

is running Chandra Dasa, Surya Bhukti Guru Anthra (according 
to the horary chart), he will change. Chandra on that day will 
transit in the constellation of Poorvabhadra owned by Guru, the 
strongest significator of 5; Chandra also conjoins position 
occupied by Rahu at the time of query; Chandra conjuncts 
Mangal also. Guru transits in Rahu’s star Swathi (Rahu 
signifying change as significator of houses 3 and 5 and represen- 
ting Sani, lord of the day at the time of query). 


Reinstatement—when ? 


It means that one is either kept under suspension or 
dismissed and now his desire and attempts are towards entering 
into the service again. Therefore one is to judge the houses 
2,6 and 10. Number given by the consultant is 49. 


Time of judgment is 8-30 A.M. Ayanamsa on 18-2-68 
23° 19’. 


The horoscope Is follows :— 











Rahu28-07 Balance Mars Dasa 5 
Sat. 1625 | XI 7-53 {XI 11-53| Asc years 10 months 26 
M.'C 4-53 10-26-40 | days. Will he be reinsta- 
—_ | ted att alll. Note the lord 
Merc,29-52; of the constellation in 
Se ae 115-53 | which the sub-lord of the 


10 th cusp is deposited- 
If that lord of the constel. 
VIII 5-53 JET 3-53 bc ee 
Vv Jupiter | lation is also the signifi- 

en. 4-08 
; cator of the houses 2 or 6 
Iv 4-53 | Or 10 he must be reinst- 
VII te eee ae ated. But if the sub-lord 
10.26-40 : " Moon | is deposited in a constel- 
25-25 lation the lord of which 
is the significator of 1 or 5 or 9 or 12 and at the same time not 





a significator of 2 or 6 or 10 he will never be reinstated. The 
meridian decides. The sub-lord of the 10th decides. 


Analysis: 2nd house occupied by Jupiter is represented by 
Rahu who has no planet in its constellation. Rahu is very 
strong. 


6th house is vacant. Its lord is Mars. Sun, Mercury, 
Moon and Kethu are in Mars constellation. Kethu is in the sub 
of Saturn in 10 is stronger than the others. So take Kethu. 10th 
Is occupied by Saturn and Rahu. Mars is in the constellation 
of Saturn in 10. 


Therefore Rahu, Mars Saturn and Kethu are the signifi- 
cators. As the Dasa balance is 5 yrs 9 mths and 26 days, the 
period that is running is Mars Dasa Rahu Bhukti. In that 
select Kethu anthra and Rahu shookshma. It will be in the 
third week of September 1969. 


Any foreign assignment to me ? 


Balance of Kethu Dasa 
II 22-06 5 years, 6 months and 7 


Going to foreign imp- 
lies that one has to leave 
aetee 26—7—1969 the present permanent 

eee place, make a long jour- 
No. 17 - ney, cross his country 
ea ee and reach another. One 
may return after a short 
stay or may settle down 
Kethu 0-21) there. Permanent® resi. 
Pee | dence is indicated by the. 
4th house. Leaving it is 
therefore shown by the 3rd house (12th _ to 4th). Long journey 
is shown by 9th house. Staying for a short time or settling 
down in foreign land is denoted by the 12th house. It shows 


new environment and surroundings. 





When we judge any particular house, how to find out 
whether the matters signified by that house will operate or not. 
If one Is to ascertain whether one will change his dwelling place, 
make a long journey and live in a new environment, one is to 
judge the 12th cusp and find out whether the lord of the sub of 
12th cusp is either retrograde or deposited in a constellation 
whose lord is retrograde. If either is retrograde, one cannot go 
abroad. If the sub-lord and the lord of the constellation in 
which the sub-lord is situated are in direct motion and if the sub- 
lord of the 12th cusp is also a significitor of either 3rd or 9th or 
12th house, one goes abroad. 


To cast the horary chart and predict, a number 17 is given 
within 249. From this number the chart cast with the planetary 
position at the time of judgment is given above. 


The 12th cusp in Meena 17° 6' L.e. Jupiter sign, Mercury 
star and Mercury sub. The sub-lord Mercury is not retrograde. 
It is placed in the constellation of Saturn and Saturn is also not 
retrograde. Further Mercury is posited in the constellation of 
planet in 12th bhava. Therefore Mercury Is a strong significator 
of 12th house. So you are sure to go abroad. 


Going abroad need not be on foreign assignment. One 
may go on tour or for honey-Moon or some other purpose. 
Then how to know whether one goes abroad on a foreign 
assignment? If any of the significators of going abroad is a 
significator of 6th house also, then one goes abroad on foreign 
assignment. 


Mercury, who is a strong significator of 12th house, is 
also a significator of 6th house because Mercury owns 6th house 
and there is no planet In 6th bhava and also there is no planet 
deposited in any of the constellations owned by Mercury. There- 
fore your going abroad will be for 6th house matters. 6th house 
shows service. Therefore you will be going on some foreign 
assignment. 


To ascertain the time of going abroad judge the houses 3, 
9 and 12 and find out significators. 


302 


3rd house is occupied by Sun. Jupiter is posited in its star.. 
Jupiter and Kethu are conjoined and Rahu occupies Jupiter sign 
Meena. Therefore Jupiter, Rahu and Kethu are strong signifi- 
cators of 3rd house. 


9th house is unoccupied. Its owner is Jupiter. Rahu is in 
Jupiter star. Kethu conjoined with Jupiter will also give results 
of 9th house. 


12th bhava is occupied by Saturn. Planets Sun, Mars and 
Mercury are deposited in the constellations owned by Saturn. 
Kethu occupies Mercury sign Kanya and therefore Kethu will 
give results of 12th house also. 


So the significators of houses 3,9 and 12 are Jupiter, Rahu, 
Kethu, Sun, Mars, Mercury and Saturn. As the significators are 
many in number let us find out the ruling planets at this moment 
of judgment because only those planets which are common In 
the ruling planets and the significators are to be selected as 
beneficial ones. The remaining are to be rejected as they are 
merely tempters. 


The ruling planets are the lords of the day, Moon sign, star 
and lagna at the moment of judgment. 


The. day is Saturday ruled by Saturn. The sign transited 
by Moon Is Dhanus owned by Jupiter. The star transited by 
Moon is owned by Kethu. The Lagna is Dhanus owned by 
Jupiter. The nodes Rahu and Kethu represent Jupiter. There- 
fore the ruling planets arte Saturn, Jupiter, Rahu and Kethu. 


The common planets amongst the significators and ruling 
planets are Saturn, Jupiter, Rahu and Kethu. They will give 
the result during their conjoined period. 


Whether your desire will be fulfilled early or not Is to be 
decided from the owner of Uth house and the planets posited in 
it. Here it Is owned by Saturn which indicates delay. Rahu is 
stronger than Saturn because occupant is stronger than owner. 
Therefore Saturn will delay till Rahu Bhukti commences. In 
Rahu Bhukti your desire will be fulfilled. 


Kethu Dasa is already on. In this Rahu Rh‘“Vtl will start 
on 7-1-1971. In Kethu Dasa Rahu Bhukti you will go either In 
Jupiter antra or Saturn Antra. Jupiter Antra runs between 
4-3-1971 and 24-4-1971 and Saturn Antra from 24-4-1971 to 
24-6-1971. Which of these two Antras will give? 


Jupiter is already represented by Kethu and Rahu (dasa 
and bhukti lords). Saturn, as owner of 11th house, is to fulfil 
the desire. Therefore take the period of Saturn Antra To 
know the exact date consider the transit of Sun during this 
period. Sun transits Kethu star Saturn sub in Aries on 28-4-1971- 
Therefore you will go on this date. 


Whether one goes by sea or by air is to be judged from the 
sub-lord of 9th cusp. 9th house shows long journey. Whether 
the journey-period will be long or short Is indicated by the sub 
lord of 9th cusp. If the sub lord of 9th cusp is a fast moving 
planet, the journey period will be short indicating thsreby that 
it will be an air travel. A slow moving planet as lord indi- 
cates journey by sea especially when It is deposited in i watery 
sign. Tn your case the 9th cusp sub lord is Moon v;no is de- 
posited in Dhanus, a fiery sign. Moon is a fast moving planet. 
Therefore the journey period will be short. Therefore you will 
go by arr. 


Whether one will settle permanently in a foreign country or 
come back after some stay Is to be decided from the 12th cusp. 
If the sub lord of 12th cusp is deposited in a common sign, he 
will go and come back. If it is in a movable sign, he will once 
for all leave the present place and never return. In fixed sign 
it indicates that he will not move out. In your case Mercury Is 
the sub lord of 12th cusp. It is deposited in a movable sign. 
Therefore you will once for all leave the present place and settle 
permanently in foreign land. 


Business-Change of Place: 
“Hull , Come on.” 


Good luck, sir, 


304 


Take your seat. Why so late in the night! 
It is after all 9-30 PM. 


True. That is alright. How do you do ? How is your 
business ? 


What about your business ? 

So, so. Very dull | am much depressed, my wife ! There 
is no change in her. Daily some quarrel or other. 

Oh God. What brought you at this hour. 


Generally | return home very late. Only to avoid the 
troubles Today | thought | could be with you and then go 


home. 
| see. Alright, tell me what | can do for you. 


| want to know whether I can change my place of business. 
In Madras itself. 


No Sir. | want to make a selection. Calcutta or Delhi or- 
Bombay or Hyderabad. 


Give me a number within 249. 
SIXTY-NINE, please. 


The horoscope is as follows : 


Number 69 is in Moon 
Ven. 28-36 ; 
IX 6-42 | X842 |Merc.6-33] Jupiter | Sign Saturn star and 
Sat. 4-34 Saturn sub. The 3rd cusp 


falls at 6-42 in Virgo, L.e. 
Mercury sign Sun’s star 
and Mercury sub. 


Analysis: 
or oe (a) Will | move at all ? 
(b) Will | be lucky 
V9-42 i 
V16-42| Kethu IV 8-42 | III 6-42 thereafter’ 
1-46 
(c) Where willl go? 


Will Imove? Note the sub-lord of the 4th house as the 
fourth house indicates the present place of residence. Here the 





305 


4th cusp falls In Libra at 8 degress 42 minutes. The lord of the 
constellation is in 10 and the sub-lord Jupiter is in 12. Hence, 

you will surely move. As the lord of the constellation Is the 

significator of the 10th house the cause of moving from one 

place to the other is only your profe .sion. 


Will | be lucky ? Movement will be given by the significa- 
tors of the third house. If the significator of the third house is 
also the significator of the second, tenth and the eleventh then 
you will have gains in the place to which you move. But if the 
significator of 3 Is also the significator of 8 and 12 then you will 
move to lose whatever you have. This Is applicable both to 
the natal and Horary chart. 


In Horary chart you have to note the sub of the third 
house which indicates the change of place. If the sub-lord is 
the significator of 2 or 10 or 11 one will make money and 
improve his lot. If the sub-lord of the third cusp is the signifi- 
cator of 8 and 12 then the move adds more difficulties. 


In your chart the lord of the sub where the third cusp falls, 
is Mercury. Mercury as lord of 3 will assist in moving from 
one place to the other, as lord of 12 it shows life In another 
place, as the depositor of the 10th house, it brings money by 
business, mostly agency, and being in the constellation of Sun, 
lord of 2 in 11 promises profit, social and financial success. 
Hence you will move and you will be lucky 


Where will | go? As the sub-lord is Mercury, you will go 
to onej>lace first; not finding that it Is no good, you will further 
move. Plurality is indicated by Mercury. 


To find out this one has to refer to the period—dasa, bhukti. 
Now you are running, according to the horary chart, Saturn 
Dasa Saturn bhukti. It is lord of 6 and 7 deposited in the 8th 
house in its own star and sub. Hence during Saturn Bhukti you 
must continue to stay here. Only when Mercury Bhukti starts, 
you will go. It will be after 7th June, 1968. 


306 


Ob, God. Everyday is a hell. How can | pass two years. 
Nowadays | do not have telephone to avoid the unpleasant 
conversation with those who demand their money back. Also 
| go late home to avoid the fellows who come to my. house to 
demand money. | allow my wife to go to bed and then | reach 
home. How long can I manage. 


Generally people are depressed and they become despond- 
ent. Somehow they manage. The Sun counts the year. When 
good time comes one begins to enjoy. 


Will | commit suicide by drowning? 


No, you will not die. You will borrow more money from 
others and be drowned in debts only. 


Alright. If at all | go where willl go ? 


The third cusp shows only the moment. But it is the 12th 
cusp which indicates the place of your stay outside. As the 
12th cusp falls in Gemini in Rahu star Jupiter sub, it will be a 
twin city and it will be HYDERABAD, SECUNDERABAD. 


Thanks, Sir. 


(This person did not meet me later. | was happy that he 
would not borrow from me also. In 1969 when | went to 
Hyderabad | met him. He told that he was pulling on there 
since a few months. When | asked him to give his address, he 
told that if he were to give his address, | might in any casual 
talk mention about this prediction and the creditors would 
chase him. So he said that he was temporarily put up with a 
friend of his and avoided giving a straight answer.) 


Can | have a press of my own to publish books ? 


Press is indicated by Mars, Mercury and Jupiter. There- 
fore, if the sub-lord of the meridian is deposited in the constell- 
ation of a planet which ts the significator of at least one of the 
three houses 2, 6 and 10 and also if it is in any manner 
connected with Mars and Mercury, one will have one's own 
press, 


307 
Will | have satisfactory spiritual lifeJ? 


The 5th house in the horoscope indicates the initiation for 
the mantra; the 10th house shows how he will be practising, 
regularly or not and the 11th house indicates his attainments, 
here. One is to find out the sub-lord of the 11th: if it is depo* 
sited in the constellation of a planet who is the significator of 5 
and 10, one will surely have the satisfaction in the spiritual life. 
Siddhi is indicated. 


Can T become a Sanyasi? 


By Sanyasi it is meant that one gives up this worldly pleasu- 
res and possessions and cares more for paralokasadhanam. He 
severs connection from the family and a new cycle of life starts. 
In Horary Astrology, one can become a Sanyasi only when the 
sub-lord of the Ascendant is connected with the houses 3, 10 
and 12 and it is In any manner connected with Saturn. 


Any re-appointment for me? 


This question is to be taken just like that asked by a young 
person whether he will get Into service at all, if so, when? 
Re-appointment means that he has completed one service and 
served connection with it. Now he Is seeking for another. 
Therefore it should be taken as though it is a new appointment 
then judge 6th cusp. The sub-lord of the 6th cusp Is to be 
deposited in the constellation, the lord of which is the signifi- 
cator of the 6th or 10th or 2nd then he will be re-appointed. 
But if the sub-lord is in the constellation lord of which is the 
significator or 1 or 5 or 9 or 12th house he will not be re- 
appointed. 


“Cure any: if so, when” 
Number given is 249 itself. 
Time of judgment: 9-30 A.M. on 9-4-1969. 
Place: 13°04'N, 


3(58 


Chart for 249 number is as under: 


Asc. Venus Dasa Balance : 
co 9 years 3 months 
Merc. 26-3} Sat 4-2 ; 
Sun. 25-47} 1129.9 | HE20-09 | IV 26-9 
Ven. 24-30 The query is about 
Rahu 6-5 disease : 


XII 21-9 V 20-9 6th shows disease ; 8th 
danger and 12th defect. 
1969 
So, judge 6th cusp. It 
XI 20-9 2 is in Sun sign, Venus star, 
Jupiter sub. Jupiter is in 


the constellation of Sun, 
X 26-9 9 | ooo |Kethus | lord of 6 in 12: Venus 
20-30 : = aK is lord of 8 in the conste- 
nis lation of Mercury in 12. 
Rahu in Jupiter’s sign is stronger than Jupiter. Rahu is the sub- 
lord of Venus who is the lord of the constellation of 6th cusp. 
Nature of disease, therefore, is shown by Mercury, Rahu and 
Venus. This shows nervous tvpe of leprosy. Mercury affects— 
nervous system ; Venus denotes beauty—Thejas ; and Rahu 
leprosy. 





Hence this 1 your ailment. 
Cure—Any? 


Note where the 11th cusp has fallen. | is in Saturn sign, 
Makara, Moon star, Sravana and sub of Kethu who is in 6. 


As the sub lord is to cause disease, the 11th cusp does not 
promise cure. It shows that you will have the above ailment as 
Kethu has to offer the results of 4, 6 and 12, and also that you 
will have treatment at home only. If the houses signified by 
Kethu would be , 6, and 12 or 3, 6, 11 and 12 then you will 
hospitalise yourself. 


3, 6,11 and 12 show successful treatment in the hospital. 
So, cure is denied. 


Prav to Mahalaksmj. Let her arrest further develop- 
ment. 


309 


Return of Missing son 


The above is the query of the mother and she says that 
he is the eldest on missing from 7-5-63; Number given by the 
anxious mother is 19. 


Time of judgment—5-38 P.M. 25-12-67 Horoscope is as 
follows: 


Mars Dasa balance 
6 yrs. 11 months 23 days. 


Sat. 12-35 


To leave one’s home, 
to go away and live in 
an unknown quarters is 
indicated by the houses 
3 and 12, counted from 
the house Indicating that 
relative. 


3rd house is occupied 
and owned by Venus but 
Kethu, a node is in that 
sign owned by Venus. 
Hence take Kethu and judge. Kethu governs Aswini, Makam 
and Moolam; Rahu, Jupiter, Mercury and Sun are in Kethn 
star. 





12th house to the 5th is occupied by Jupiter; owned by 
Moon. Venus is in Jupiter’s star whereas none is in Moon’s 
star. So Venus and Moon indicate <2th house matters. Jupiter, 
Mercury, Sun, Rahu, Kethu, Moon, Venus are the significators. 


People who leave the house without any alm or any 
programme or notice, will be, naturally, going from one place 
to the other and hence the 7th house also needs judgment. 
During the period of and sub period of the significator of the 
7th house and the 3rd bouse, one will be making many short 
journeys and one will be breaking journey on the way. 7th 
house counted from the 5th (Leo) representing son, is occupied’ 
by Saturn. Saturn alone is in its star Uthrapathrapada, 


Now, if we calculate when the boy had run away, and work 
backwards it is Moon Dasa Saturn Bhukti Rahu Anthra. 


Moon is lord of 12; Saturn is the significator of 7 and 
Rahu by occupying Mars sign Aries, denotes 9th house matters 
and by being in Kethu constellation and Venus, sub indicates 
that he had been moving aimlessly from one place to the 
other during the above evil period. It was Tuesday. Rahu 
star day in Venus sign. 


The question is about the return of the boy and not 
about the time of his missing. 


Judge the houses 2 (family), 8 (4 to 5), 11 (reunion). 2nd 
house is occupied by Kethu, Rahu, Jupiter, Mercury and Sun 
are in Kethu star. 8th house is occupied by Rahu and none 
in Rahu star. 11th house is unoccupied. Mercury rules the 
11th house and no planet is in Mercury star. Therefore 
Rahu, Mercury (Rahu indicates Mars) conjoined sub period 
will bring him back, i.e., Mars Dasa Rahu Bhukti Mercury 
Anthra, i.e., between 3rd November, 1968 and 25-12-68. 


Consider the ruling planets at this moment. Today it is 
Monday ruled by Moon. Chithra governed by Mars, 
represented by Rahu. Lagna is Gemini owned by Mercury. 
Therefore, he will return in Moon shookshma when the lagna 
is in Arudhra and Mars dasanatha transits Moon’s position 
at the time of query, I.e., 6-72-67 at about 6-30 P.M. 


N.B.:—When one analyses and, judges a chart, if any 
one else presents a horoscope, note the ruling planels of that 
horoscope. It will agree with your finding. Mr. Gopinath 
M.A. (Sanskrit), Delhi and Mr. Rama Sharma auditor, Vizag., 
and Mr. K. Ganapathi are in my room. A highly placed 
official of a group of Industries came without appointment 
for the first time and presented his chart. 1 asked Mr. 
Ginapathi and Mr. Gopinath to write down the nakshathra 
of the person to prove that the ruling planets at the moment 
will agree with the ruling planets of the chart taken (especially 
when the query is to know the birth star). Both wrote 


“Arudhra.” | asked them to read out what they wrote. They 
said Arudhra. The Officer admired at the correctness and 
appreciated how they gave the same star and that too, in a few 
seconds. 


This is mentioned here ? To Impress on the readers how 
the ruling planets at the moment of judgment give very 
accurate results and can with courage and confidence correctly 
predict when it is Useful to the querist and advantageous to the 
Astrologer; Where is tendency or probably, here. 


IS THERE ANY IMPRISONMENT FOR ME? 


Number 208 was given at Bombay at 7.30 P. M. 1. S. T. on 
24-11-1968 by the querist when asked to give any number 
within 249. 


The horary chart showing the disposition of the 12 cusps 
for the given number for Bombay (Latitude 18° 55') and the 
planetary position for the above mentioned time and date is 
as follows:— 


The judgment could 
1111-13 | IV 9-13} V4-13 not be worked out 
immediately after the 
query as | had no time. 
The analysis was actually 


24—11—1968 done at 5-30 P.M. I.S.T. 
7-30 P.M. LS.T. 


18-55 N on 29-11-1968 at Bombay 
i No. aa id when the querist again 
rat V1l0*0' | came to remind about it* 


The number given by 
the querist shows his 
lagna, Any one with 
whom he deals is shown 
by the 7th house, When he wants to borrow, the 7th house 
shows the lender. When he applies for scholarship, the 7th 
house shows the person or the institution giving the scholar- 





312 


ship. Likewise, when he wants to know his future from an 
astrologer-the 7th house indicates the astrologer. 


Whether the astrologer will be able to predict immediately 
after the query or not is to be judged from the sub-lord of the 
7th cusp. If the sub.lord is a fast moving planet, the query will 
be solved immediately. If it is a slow moving planet, there will 
be delay in analysing the problem. If Mercury is the sub-lord 
or if Mercury associates with or aspects the sub-lord then the 
querist will either correspond or send agent or will come second 
time to get his problem solved. If the sub-lord is node, it will 
have to be seen to whom they represent and then judged. 
(A node firstly represents the planet or planets with which it is 
conjoined, then the planet or planets aspecting it and lastly the 
owner of the sign in which it is deposited). 


In your case the 7th cusp, is C° 0° Leo, i.e. Sun sign Kethu 
star Kethu sub. Kethu is conjoined with Jupiter in Kanya 
owned by Mercury. Therefore Kethu represents both Jupiter 
and Mercury. Jupiter is :a slow moving planet. This indicates 
that the analysis will not be worked out immediately after the 
query. Mercury suggests that the querist will come once again 
to the astrologer, remind him and then get the judgment. He 
will be able to come only when the ruling planets then, will 
reveal the actual results and the date of the event. 


The same number given by the querist may be taken on the 
day of judgment. If the place of query and place of judgment 
are the same, then all the 12 cusps will remain same. If the 
place of judgment is changed, then it is necessary to calculate 
the 12 cusps for the latitude of the place of judgment and take 
these revised cusps for analysis. At a particular time the 
planetary position will of course be same for any place, may it 
be the place of query or that of judgment or any one else. So 
insert the planetary position at the time of judgment and 
predict. 


In the present case the place of judgment being the same, 
the 12 cusps will remain the same. Only the planetary position 


will change. The horary chart with these 12 cusps and the 
planetary position at the time and date of judgment is as given 
below:— 
Saturn Imprisonment implies* 
25-49 (R) 
Moo 13-45] III 11-33 | IV 9-13 separation from family- 
Rahul3-01 restrictions to free move* 
II 7-13 
ments confinement with- 
in four walls, leaving 
29—11—1969 one’s own permanent 
5.30 P.M. LS.T. 
18.55N. place of residence and 
No. 208 life in new environment. 
Ayanamsa 23* 19' 
XII0-13 
Separation from/amily 
is shown by afflicted 2nd 
house and the 8th house- 
Restrictions to free move 
ments* confinement with 
in four walls and life is an altogether different place is shown by 
the 12thhouse, The 4th house showsone’s own place of resi- 
dence. Therefore 3rd house (being 12th to 4th) shows leaving 
the present place of residence. 


Mer. 9-48] IX 11-13 





Therefore the houses to be judged for imprisonment are 
2,3,8 and 12 


Rahu is the Karaka for jail and therefore great importance 
must be attached to Rahu while judging whether one goes in 
jail at all. 


The houses 2, 3,8 and 12 are in every body’s chart. Does 
it mean that some day or the other everybody is to go in jail? 
No! Everybody does not go in jail. Some go, some don’t 
go. Then how to judge who wiil go and who will not? For 
this, judge the 12th cusp and find out whether the following 
three conditions are simultaneously satisfied:— 


(i) The sub-lord of the 12th cusp should be Rahu : 


li) It should not be deposited in the constellation 
whose lord is retrograde and 


(iii) It should be a significator of either 2nd or 3rd or 8th 
or 12th house. 


314 


If any one of these three conditions is not satisfied, one will 
not be Imprisoned. For imprisonment all the above three 
conditions must neeessarily be satisfied simultaneously. 


In the above chart for the moment of judgment, consider 
the 12th cusp. It is 0'13'Markar. i.e. Saturn sign Sun star and 
Rahu sub. As the sub-lord of the 12th cusp is Rahu the first 
condition is satisfied. 


Rahu is posited in the constellation of Saturn. Satura is 
retrograde. Therefore Rahu is deposited in a constellation 
whose lord is retrograde. Therefore the second condition is 
not satisfied. 


As the second condition is not satisfied, there is no necessity 
to asses the third condition because, as a rule, even if one of 
the three conditions is not satisfied one will not go in jail. 


Therefore you will not be imprisoned any time in future. 
Will 1 Be Prosecuted By Income Tax Department ? 


Normally this thing does not happen unless one’s fate is so 
bad as to be prosecutetLand punished; then in Horary Astro- 
logy, the sub-lord of the dOth) house will be the significator of 
7,8 and 12. So one loses the prestige and also the money. 


Will there be any raid in my house ? 


IX 6-50 Raid is generally a 
Sat. 15-33 


result of some secret 
inimical activity resulting 
into loss of reputation 
12—8—1969 and also money. Now- 
Pe eten adays, a few persons 
No90 | have amassed wealth by 
eyanamsa 23°20: not submitting correct 
accounts and saved 
money either in this 
country or abroad. But* 
when their time isbadthe 
servants or the neigh- 





315 


hours or some unreliable friends who gather information, during 
unguarded moments, betray, give information, leak out the truth 
and land the native in trouble. 


The 12th house indicates sudden and surprising loss, 
confiscation by Government etc., by one’s own wrongful 
acting, secret enemies, secret inimical activity, cheating etc. etc, 


Who will betary and give information to the police is to be 
judged from the sub-lord of the 12th cusp. If the sub-lord of 
12th cusp is connected with houses 3 (younger brother or 
neighbour and 6 (open enemy) then one’# own younger brother 
or neighbour will openly betray. If it is connected to houses 3 
and 12 (secret enmity) one’s own younger brother or neighbour 
will secretly give the information to the police. Houses 6 and 
12 indicate that servants will do harm. 11 and 12 show that 
the so called friend or eider brother betrays the native. 9 and 
12 indicate that either father or a stranger will be harmful. 

4 and 12 show that the informant is in his own house, street or 
town. 7 and 12 threaten that either the partner in business, as 
soon as he severe connection, shows his true colour; or the 
native’s wife, after divorce etc will call on the police and give 
information. 


The 12th house shows loss of money, and also loss of 
reputation as it is 12th to 1st house (showing reputation of the 
native). 


To ascertain loss of reputation and that of money, consider 
the 12th house and find out the significators. The significators 
are to found out in the following manner. 


(i) The planets situated in the constellation of the 
occupants of the 12th house. 


(ii) The planets tenanted in the 12th bhava. 
(iii) Planets in the constellation of lord of 12, 


(iv) Lord of 12 (lord of the sign in which the 12th 
cusp falls). 

(v) Nodes firstly give the results of the planet or planets 
with which they are conjoined, then of the planet in 


316 


whose constellation they are deposited, then the 
planets aspecting them and lastly the planet in whose 
sign it is deposited. 


All the above significator are connected with the 12th house 
matters and all of them can give 12th house results but in 


varying degree. 


Therefore what one is to do is to find out the significators of 
12th house, verify which of these significators are common with 
the ruling planets at the moment of judgment, find out the 
period that is running and that which is to follow and pass the 
judgment. 


The 12th house will be in everybody’s chart. Significators 
of 12th house will also come in everybody’s chart. 
Does it mean that everybody’s house will be raided some day or 
the other? No ! Then how to judge? Find out tjie suh-lgrd of 
the 12th cusp and see whether it is a sSSngJsignificator of 12th 
*ffBfise. If it is, then the danger of loss of reputation and also 
’Tnoney is indicated. Otherwise not. 


To find out the sub lord and analyse, a number 90 within 
249 is given. The horary chart showing the disposition of the 
twelve cusps aod the planetary position at the moment of judg- 
ment is given above. 


The 12th cusp is 7° 50° Karaka, i.e. Moon sign Saturn star 
and Kethu sub. Kethu is deposited in the constellation of Sun 
who is in 12th bhava. Therefore the sub-lord of 12th cusp is a 
strong significator of 12th house. Therefore danger of loss of 
reputation and also money is indicated. 


Kethu, the sub-lord of the 12th cusp, is deposited in lagna in 
the sign Leo owned by Sun and also Kethu is conjoined with 
Mercury. Therefore Kethu represents both Suu and Mercury. 
Sun is owner of 1st (native) and occupant of 12th (secret inimi- 
cal activity). Mercury is occupant of 1st bhava and owner of 
2nd (one’s own family) and 11th (friend or elder brother). 
Therefore because of the consultant’s own wrongful action* 
(houses 1 and 12) either his elder brother (11th house) or a 


317 


family friend (houses 2 and 11) will secretly (12th house) give 
information to the police who, in turn, will raid the native's 
house during the conjoined period of the planets common in 
significators and the ruling planets at the moment of judgment. 
The 12th bhava is occupied by Sun and Moon. Tt is owned 
by Moon. Kethu in Simha represents Sun No planet in in any 
of the three stars, ASwini, Magha and Moola owned by Kethu 
Jupiter is posited in the Hastha star owned by Moon and Kethu is 
deposited in Uttarapalguni star owned by Sun. 


Therefore the significators of the 12th house are Sun, Kethu, 
Jupiter and Moon. 


Let us find out the ruling planets. They are the lords of 
the day, rasi, star, lagna and lagna star at the moment of judg- 
ment. The lord of the day is Mars, that of rasi is Moon, of 
star is Mercury (who is represented by Kethu as it conjoins with 
Kethu) and the lagna falls in Uttarashada star owned by Sun 
in the sign Makara governed by Saturn. 


Therefore the ruling planets are Mars, Moon, Kethu, 
Mercury, Saturn and Sun. 


The common in the ruling planets and the significators are 
Sun, Kethu and Moon. 


Now let us see what dasa-bhukti he is running. Balance of 
Mercury Dasa is 14 years 11 months and 8 days. As Mercury 
Is no way connected with raid, you need not fear till Mercury 
Dasa ends. It ends on 20-77-1984. (A doubt may come in some- 
body’s mind that whether the native will be alive till this date. 
Let us see. Judge the 8th house which shows one's longevity. 
No planet is in 8th. It is owned by Judge. Also, Jupiter 
aspects Oth house. Therefore it gives long life to the native 
who is at present 30 years old.) After Metcury, Kethu Dasa 
starts. Kethu is a strong significator of 12th. It is a ruling 
planet at the moment of judgment and also the sub-lord of the 
12th cusp. Therefore Kethu Dasa Kethu Bhukti will be dange. 
rous. It runs from 20-7-1984 to 17-12-1984. In this Sun Antra 
operates between 23-8-1981 and 30-8-1984 and Moon Antra 
operates from 30-8-1984 to 13-9-1984. Therefore somewhere 


from 23-8-1284 to 13-9-1984 loss of reputation and also money 
due to raid in the house is Sure. 


For exact date consider the transit of Sun. Sun transits Sun 
star Moon sub in the sign Leo owned by Sun on 10-9-1984. 
Therefore, on this date there will be raid in your house. 


Which Gem will suit me? 


A few learned astrologers fi id that a particular planet in 
its period will give adverse results to a person. So to mitigate 
the evil effects they suggest the stone or gem governed by that 
malefic planet. According to Prof. Krishnamurti, it is wrong 
and actually doing harm to the consultant. 


Suppose Venus has to cause Diabetes, if one suggests 
that sweets are governed by Venus and one taking much of 
sweets, will reduce the evil effects of Venus, how far this learn- 
ed astrologer will be helpful to the patient. 


Again, if Mars donates arrogance, independence, disobedi- 
ence, etc. and thereby Mars threatens dispute among husband 
and wife, what is the meaning of suggesting to put on coral or 
ruby indicated by Mars or to keep ready a tathi or a knife or a 
revolver loaded, governed by Mars. Suppose due to evil Mars, 
one’s hut Is in fire, consider how wise the learned adviser Is, 
if be suggests to pour highly inflammable ones on the fire, since 
inflammable ones are governed by Mars. 


If Saturn indicates laziness, lethargic tendence and slow in 
one’s action, how can there be any benefit by painting the wall 
with blue colour, purchasing blue cloth for curtan and blue car 
for his use. The result will be similar to an old Saturn) deaf 
(Saturn) person crossing the road and the Saturn afflicted driver 
or owner delaying in reducing the speed by applying the brake. 
Readers know what the results would be. 


If Moon is evil and it- threatens loose motion, if one sug- 
gests a liquid purgative to the patient what will be the result ? 
If Moon threatens, drowning in one’s horoscope and if one uses 
pearl according to an advice, do you know what will happen ? 


319 


Mind you, Moon will keep him for some hours by the side of 
the pearls at the bottom of the sea and after a few hours, lift 
his body up to the surface and carry the bloated dead body to 
the shores. 


So, what is the wise suggestion ? Prof. Krishnamurti says 
that when a house is In fire, we throw water and sand; when 
one is lazy, we give stimulant; when there is diabetes, we give 
insulin to control. Therefore, that which will nullify the evil 
Is to be suggested. That planet which is auspicious, is to be 
taken. Its Gem alone is to be used. Therefore, people follow- 
ing Sayana system will be knowing the date of birth. 


If birth is between: 


March, 22 and April 23 Blue, Pearl. 
April, 24 and May 24 Blue, Yellow. 
May, 25 and June 25 Red, Yellow. 
June, 26 and July 25 White, Red. 
July, 26 and Aug. 24 Green, Red. 
Aug. 25 and Sept. 23 Cream, Green. 
Sept 24 and Oct. 23 Orange, Red. 
Oct. 24 and Nov. 23 Green, Orange. 
Nov. 24 and Dec. 23 White, Green. 
Dec. 24 and Jan. 22 Red, White. 
Jan. 23 and Feb. 22 Yellow, White. 


Feb. 23 and Mar. 21 


Blue, Yellow. 


Those who know only their birth star and rasi, they can 


use as follows:— 


Aries, Mesha Blue, Pearl. 
Taurus, Rishaba Blue, Yellow. 
Gemini, Mithunam Red, Yellow. 
Cancer, Karkata White, Red. 
Leo. Simha Green, Red. 
Virgo, Kann Cream, Green. 
Libra, Thulam Orange, Red, 
Scorpio, Vrishchika Green, Orange. 
Sagittarius, Dhanus White, Cream, 


320 


Capricorn, Makaram ais Red, White. 
Aquarius, Kumbam Se Yellow, White. 
Pisces, Meenam se4 Blue, Yellow. 


According to Krishnamurti Padhdhati if the sub-lord of the 
11th cusp is in the constellation of a planet who is the signifi- 
cator of 1, 2 or Il, then use that colour indicated by the lord 
of constellation. 


If Sun is a benefic, use orange colour and gold. 
If Moon is a benefic, use Pearls, Pushparagham. 
If Mars is a benefic, use Coral and Ruby. 

If Mercury is a benefic—Emerald. 

If Jupiter is a benefic, Yellow Sapphire—Gold. 

If Venus is a benefic, Diamond, Silver. 

If Saturn is a benefic, Blue, Sapphire. 


The day of purchase also may be the day ruled by the same 
beneficial planet promising pleasure, peace and prosperity 
(e.g.) Pearls on Mondays, Coral on “Tuesday,” Emerald on 
Wednesdays, etc., etc. 


It is not necessary that the Gems should touch your body. 


[Truth is this : Acquisition of any Gem Is indicated mostly 
by a benefic. So one acquires when the period of that planet 
operates. So, when you put on the/Gem, that good period 
operates and so you enjoy and you attribute to the Gem. But 
the benefic who gives the Gem as the significator of 2 is also 
the significator of 11, you enjoy. But those unfortunate people 
have a Gem during the sub period of the significator of second 
house who is also the significator of 8 and 12. So they suffer. 
Hence, they say that the Gem does not suit them. Hence, one 
should select such a Gem, the lord of which is the significator 
of 1 or 2 or 11 and has nothing to do with 8 or 12.] 


Will | get passport to go overseas ? 


If the sub-lord of the 11th cusp is in the constellation of the 
slgnifictor of the houses 3, 9 ana 11, you will surely get the 


521 


passport. Wilh J settle dowp- there ? 1 f, .in. Horary astrology> 
sub-lort) of 11th cusp is io the constellation of significator of 11 
and 2 you will surely live in foreign place. 


Will 1 go overseas ? 


If the sub-lord of the 11th is in the constellation of the 
planet who is the significator of 3, 9 and 12, you will surely 
proceed to foreign countries. 


Can | become the Premier ? 


If the sub-lord of the IJth cusp is in the constellation of the 
planet who is the significator of the 9th, the Ifith andLitth and 
2130 in any manner connected with Mars and Jupiter, you can 
become the premier. This rule is Applicable to get any position 
which one wants to have. We have to take that* the 9th house 
represents the kingdom, Mars and Jupiter indicate a high poli- 
tical power and the 11th house shows that the ambition will be 
realised. 


WHICH TIME IS GOOD? 


(a) To have a servant: 


You can ask your servant to start his work at a time when 
the ascendant rising fn the East is not afflicted by the significa- 
tors of the 8th and 12th houses. But, if you appoint him ata 
time when the sub-lord of the ascendant is the significator of 6 
and 11, yon will surely have satisfaction. 


(b) To buy an article: 

The sub-lord of the second house must be deposited in the 
constellation of a planet which is the Significator of 6 and 11. 
(c) To sell an article: 

The sub-lord of the i2th must be situated in the’ constella- 
tion, the lord of which is the significator of the houses 6 and 11. 
To enter into service: 


The sub-lord of the sixth is to he deposited in the constella- 
tion of the planet signifying houses 10-and 11. 


322 


To Sign an agreement: 


The sub-lord of the third cusp is to be deposited fa a cons- 
tellation, the lord of which is the significator of the houses 6 
and 11. 


To start a business: 


The sub-lord of the 7th is to be deposited in the constellation 
the lord of which is the significator of the houses 6 and 11. 


To release a film: 


The sub-lord of the 7th is to be deposited in the constellation, 
the lord of which 4s the significator of 6 and 11. 


To lay foundation: 


The sub-lord of the fourth is to be deposited in the constel- 
lation of the significator of the 11th and not a significator of 
5 and 12. 


Will | go overseas for probation or on promotion ? 


If the sub-lord of the 6th cusp is deposited in the constella- 
tion of a planet which is the significator of 9 and 12, you go 
overseas, Only for probation, training or education. But, if the 
sub-lord of the 6th cusp is deposited in a constellation, the lord of 
which Is a significator of the 11th house and also either 6 or 10, 
you are Sure to have promotion. 


Whom to Pray: 


Astrologically, while judging a horoscope, note the planets 
which are very advantageous to fulfil one’s desire ; then make a 
selection of a particular form of God or Goddess or any low 
form like yekshinl, Saththan, Kurali, etc. But my sincere 
advice would be to pray to your Guru, the preceptor who puts 
you on the way and removes your darkness. It is said “Gurur 
Brahma, Gurur Vishnu, Gurur Devoh Mahaeswara.” Hence In 
Guru'you can find all the three ; to produce anything you desire, 
to protect anything you want and to get rid of those which you 


323 


wish. Hence | strongly recommend to have the blessings of 
your Guru. It will be much more effective, if you receive the 
blessings of Jagadguru, who never cared for his wordly pleasures, 
but took Sanyasi life in youth and daily spends most of the 
hours in doing Pooja to the idol which was worshipped for 
hundreds of years and who does Japa for hours. Further the 
people with whom he spends most of the remaining time are 
those who are religious or try to be religious, Godfearing, etc. 
Such Gurus are considered as the incarnation of God to guide 
us and put us in the right path. People who have the fortune 
in the future alone, that is, those who have done meritorious 
deed in the previous birth alone can have such a Dharsan. All 
cannot have the chances to visit his place. Such of those can 
have the Dharsan of his disciples. 


Today in India if anybody has the desire to meet such a 
Guruji and at the same time, one has neither time nor money,, 
then they can simply pray to Him having the photo published 
in the front pages. He is our Jagadguru, Kanchi Kamakotl 
Peetadhipathi Shri Sankarachariar Swamigal Avargal. 


Astrologically 


When you want to make a selection of God or Goddess, 
select those planets which are deposited in the constellation of 
the significators of the 10th and II th houses and not the signifi- 
cators of 8 and 12 house. You can refer to Krishnamurti 
Padhdhati.—Advanced Stellar Astrology. 





